TAMIL NADU
AEROSPACE AND DEFENCE
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2022

| sal

ite py

Gus

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

TAMIL NADU
AEROSPACE & DEFENCE INDUSTRIAL

POLICY
2022

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Ts PREAMBLE sscwctssseccvsnsenevarescesrcserssrennennncennnnainiennnivnvareneimnnn nvarenvnimnnnmeenvenes 3
2; VISION AND MISSIONoessssssssssisessnnssn nn snsasrnannnnnannnannncn anne 5
3: -ADVANTAGE-TAMIL NADU sistsccssccssssnsvrisssivesanscnnrnnaceieeanni aimee 8
4. TAMIL NADU DEFENCE INDUSTRIAL CORRIDOR....

5. FOCUS SECTORS. .......cccssseseessesseseceseesseesessessessssesesessesessessassuseeasasessseseenscssessasessausnesasensesessereeseaes 20
6. GOVERNMENT INITIATIVES... eee ceeecscnseeceeeeseeeseseeseeeeaecaeeeaesseseeeseesseseeesaeeseseaesseseaesaeseeesateeseaee 26
7. INCENTIVES & CONCESSIONS FOR AEROSPACE & DEFENCE MANUFACTURING SECTOR............. 36
8. POLICY IMPLEMENTATION

Additional NOteS: :ccsisisccsscrscscassevisevesvseisecscevssveeveneeituassueveusceveseseeaciiecsteauitueetvtecutuastursevesevevseuteertteetiieese 54
Annexure |: Abbreviations 'wswccsisssvesssssecevsvssexosesesesvsseveveacseveexzevnsswnssvesesisessresereenssionueveonuenneesensesvavesexees 55
Annexure Il — Definition of A & D UNitS scssessiscsisrussncmssemmeriernneenrmmennnvnnnnarnmecnanemmeraaiaess 59
Annexure Ill — Defence Industrial Corridor NOde@S ....ccccccscccccesesserssascsicsnsessesssetessnsususasssaanseniedenasessaauee 61

1|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Preamble

2|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

1. PREAMBLE

Tamil Nadu is India’s industrial powerhouse with a strong and diverse
industrial base. It has the highest number of factories and industrial
workers in the country and is a leader in terms of industrial output. Tamil
Nadu has a highly developed industrial eco-system and is very strong in
sectors like automobiles and auto-components, textiles, leather products,
light and heavy engineering, pumps and motors, electronic software and
hardware. The Government of Tamil Nadu is determined to further
accelerate the geographically balanced and environmentally sustainable
industrialization of the State and to foray into more technologically complex

sectors like aerospace and defence manufacturing.

The Indian Aerospace & Defence (A & D) industry is rapidly progressing
and evolving as a global player, fuelled by increasing defence spend and
booming commercial aviation. The strong growth potential of the Indian
Aerospace & Defence industry is an important driver for attracting Original
Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and global manufacturers to India. With
the announcement of Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor coupled with
highly skilled human resources, various investor-friendly initiatives and
conducive business climate, Tamil Nadu is all set to emerge as the key
destination for the global Aerospace & Defence industry to position their

manufacturing base by virtue of its multi-lateral strengths.

3|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Vision, Mission and Goal

4|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

2. VISION AND MISSION

2.1 Vision

To make Tamil Nadu the preferred destination to invest, innovate and

create products and services in the Aerospace and Defence sector.

2.2 Mission

Creating a robust, world-class, high technology and efficient Aerospace

& Defence (A&D) manufacturing ecosystem.

Attracting global OEMs and Tier-1 suppliers and Indian majors as anchor

units in the State by providing the required facilitation and support.

Fostering the innovation ecosystem focussing on the Aerospace &
Defence sector by developing innovation centres and start-up hubs, to

make Tamil Nadu the foremost innovation hub of India.

Fostering the growth of companies in Tamil Nadu that support India’s

self-reliance vision in Aerospace and Defence.

Channelizing the State’s strengths in automobile, electronics, precision
manufacturing, heavy engineering, textiles, and related sectors to

support the evolution of the A&D ecosystem.

2.3. Goal

Attracting investments to the tune of INR 75,000 Crore (USD 10 Bn)!

over a period of 10 years.

Creating direct & indirect employment prospects for nearly 1 lakh (0.1

million) persons in 10 years.

1 USDINR FX Rate of 75 has been used in this Policy for reference. For values cited in the Policy or in
case of any discrepancy, the amount quoted in Indian Rupees shall prevail

5|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

2.4 SCOPE OF THE POLICY
This policy would be applicable to all enterprises engaged in the

following classifications as defined in the National Industrial Classification
(NIC):

a) Manufacturing of goods under Section C - groups 252, 303 and
304.

b) Manufacturing of goods of all other groups of Section C pertaining
to Aerospace and Defence Sector

c) Research and Development on natural science and engineering
(Section M, Group 721 and 741) pertaining to Aerospace and
Defence sector

d) Activities under Section J, Division 61, 62 and 63 pertaining to
Aerospace and Defence

e) Any other activities under NIC as notified from time to time by
Government of Tamil Nadu/Tamil Nadu Industrial Development

Corporation

This policy supersedes the Tamil Nadu Aerospace and Defence Policy
2019 and would be valid till the issue of the next revision by the Tamil Nadu
Government or for a period of 4 years up to 31 Mar 2026, whichever is
earlier. This policy is to be read in conjunction with the prevailing Tamil
Nadu Industrial Policy. If there is a difference between this policy and the
Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy, unless specifically mentioned otherwise, the

Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy should be deemed as relevant.

6|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Advantage - Tamil Nadu

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

3. ADVANTAGE-TAMIL NADU

Tamil Nadu’s Exceptional Strengths

* Tamil Nadu has a large and diversified manufacturing and industrial
base, ranking first in the country in terms of the number of factories. It
has been consistently ranked as one of the best-administered States in

the country.

* Government of Tamil Nadu organisations like State Industries Promotion
Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd (SIPCOT), Tamil Nadu Industrial
Development Corporation (TIDCO), Electronics Corporation of Tamil
Nadu (ELCOT) and Small Industries Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIDCO)
have created Industrial Parks, SEZs, Logistics Parks, etc. in a plug-and-
play mode in order to create a superior industrial infrastructure. These
agencies have encouraged a large number of private players to create
similar facilities. The State has the highest number of operating
industries in the country is the second largest contributor to the national
GDP and is third in terms of cumulative FDI flows. It has been

consistently maintaining a higher growth rate than the national average.

" Tamil Nadu is home to several government and private establishments
that make a significant contribution to the A&D sector of the country.
Some of the notable industries include Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF),
Ordnance Clothing Factory (OCF), Engine Factory Avadi (EFA), Combat
Vehicles Research & Development Establishment (CVRDE), Ordnance
Factory Trichy (OFT), Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project (HAPP), The
Cordite Factory, Taneja Aerospace, Titan Engineering and Automation
Ltd, AVTEC Ltd, AxleTech, Caterpillar, Delta Electronics, Salem Steel
Plant, JSW Steels, TVS Defence, Data Patterns, Ashok Leyland, MRF
Ltd, HCL Technologies, Ramco Systems, Rane Brake Linings, LMW Ltd,
L&T Defence, Roots Industries, Pricol, MAK+Air, LGB, Chakradhara
Aerospace, L&T MBDA, Elgi-Sauer, Eaton Aerospace, Air Works, Micro-

8| Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Tech CNC, Dynaspede Integrated Systems Ltd, Magtorq Systems and
CUMI Ltd to name a few.

«= Several startups like Agnikul Kosmos, Garuda Aerospace, GalaxEye, Big
Bang Boom Technologies, the ePlane Company, India and Big Cat
Wireless are based in Tamil Nadu, with the list expanding by the day.
The State has the largest auto-clusters in India. It is a preferred choice
of over 350 large auto components manufacturers, accounting for more
than 48% of India’s automobile exports and contributing 34% to the
nation’s automobile components export. Tamil Nadu is, so far, the only
State to attract 7 automobile giants-Ford, Hyundai, Mitsubishi, Daimler,
Nissan, Renault and BMW, BYD and Switch.

* Tamil Nadu is the 2"4 largest manufacturer of electronic hardware in
India. Some of the Fortune 500 companies that have set up
manufacturing facilities in the State include Motorola, Dell-EMC,
Samsung, Foxconn, Sanmina-SCI, Flex, Nokia, BYD and Siemens

besides several component suppliers.

* Tamil Nadu is a developed State with the maximum urbanisation (48%),
the highest Gross Enrollment Ratio in Higher Education (51.4 %)? anda
very high literacy rate of 80%. The State with nearly 2610 education
institutions, produces the maximum number of graduates and

postgraduates in engineering and technical education in the country.

= The State is one of Asia’s most preferred investor destinations anchoring
9% of FDI in India since 2000.

* Tamil Nadu turns out the largest number of skilled manpower in India
every year. Tamil Nadu is a pioneer in promoting technical education in

the private sector with the highest concentration of top educational

? AISHE Report 2019-2020

9|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

institutions. The State has 59 Universities, 455 Engineering Colleges,
and 494 Polytechnics.

= More than 60 Engineering Universities are offering technical courses and
training in the field of Aeronautical Engineering and more than 5000
aeronautical engineers graduate from Tamil Nadu every year. Indian
Institute of Technology (IIT), Anna University, Madras Institute of
Technology (MIT), Hindustan University, Vellore Institute of Technology
(VIT), VEL Tech University, SRM University and MGR University are a
few of the Universities offering research programs in Aerospace and

Defence.

* Tamil Nadu has excellent road, rail, sea and air connectivity.

Road Railways Sea Air
» Part of Golden = 532 railway |=" 3 major Sea = 4
Quadrilateral stations ports with International
* National Highways - = Main rail junctions Chennai being Airports
6606 kms include Chennai, the 24 largest
Madurai, port in India. =» 2 Domestic
Coimbatore, Airports
Erode, (Salem &
Tiruchirappalli & Thoothukudi)
Salem.
= Proposed
world class
greenfield
airport near

Chennai and
a brownfield
airport at

Hosur

10|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Tamil Nadu Defence

Industrial Corridor

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

4. TAMIL NADU DEFENCE INDUSTRIAL CORRIDOR

Tamil Nadu is an ideal hub for the Aerospace & Defence industries in
India given its the strong manufacturing ecosystem that is backed by
efficient human capital strength. Considering these strengths, the
Government of India has announced the establishment of Tamil Nadu
Defence Industrial Corridor. Tamil Nadu Industrial Development
Corporation Limited (TIDCO) is the nodal agency for facilitation of
Aerospace and Defence manufacturing projects in Tamil Nadu. While Tamil
Nadu’s industrial growth has been at a scorching pace cutting across
multiple domains, the announcement of the TN Defence Industrial Corridor
by the Government of India on 20 Jan, 2019 has proved to be a catalyst
for the growth of the Aerospace and Defence Industry in the State.

Five nodes have been identified for the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial
Corridor based on their inherent strengths. These nodes, viz., Chennai,
Hosur, Salem, Coimbatore and Tiruchirappalli are well connected with
each other and other parts of the country. Each node has its unique

strengths and capabilities, which are outlined below:
4.1 CHENNAI

Chennai (formerly Madras) is the oldest modern city with a history
dating back over 375 years. It is the fourth largest urban agglomeration in
India and a major contributor to the industrial and economic growth of the
country. It is a major hub for automotive and electrical/electronic
manufacturing services, Information & Communication Technology, fintech
and warehousing. The traditional and de facto gateway of South India,
Chennai is among the most-visited Indian cities by international tourists. It
was ranked the 36th-most visited city in the world in 2019. The Quality of
Living Survey rated Chennai as the safest city in the country. Chennai
attracts 45 percent of health tourists visiting India, and 30 to 40 percent of

domestic health tourists. Industrialisation in Chennai dates back to the 16th

12|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

century when textile mills manufactured goods and exported them to
Britain during its war with France. According to Forbes magazine, Chennai
is one of the fastest-growing cities in the world, featuring in the "Forbes-
Top 10 Fastest Growing Cities in the World".

Chennai had its moment of glory in aviation history in March 1910,
when the Giacomo D'Angelis airplane took off, making it the first outside
Europe and North America. The tryst with Aerospace and Defence
Industries continues to date. Chennai’s capabilities in other domains like
automotive, chemical, medical, electronics and Information Technology
have also been growing at a tremendous pace. Chennai was recently
declared the second best place in the world to undertake R&D in electronics.
SIPCOT has established the first industrial park specifically for Aerospace
industries in Tamil Nadu, at Vallam Vadagal, near Chennai. An Advanced
Computing and Design Engineering Centre (AeroHub) to support the needs
of the A&D industries is being established at Vallam Vadagal. The industrial

and academic capabilities at the Chennai node are provided below:
Public:

Avadi is a major defence manufacturing hub, housing Heavy Vehicles
Factory (HVF), Ordnance Clothing Factory (OCF), Engine Factory Avadi
(EFA), and Combat Vehicles Research & Development Establishment
(CVRDE). It is spread over a vast area of about 15000 acres. For decades
this has been the epicentre for the design, development and manufacturing
and maintenance activities of the land systems for the Indian Armed Forces.
It is supported by the well-developed automotive and electronics industrial

base at this node.

13|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Private:

Chennai is home to multiple Aerospace and Defence Industrial Units in
the private sector across domains. L&T Shipyard, the only private sector
ship building unit with the capability to support the military requirement in
the country is at Chennai. Multiple other organisations form part of the
A&D industrial ecosystem, including TVS Defence, Data Patterns, Ashok
Leyland, MRF, HCL Technologies, Ramco Systems and Rane Brake Linings.
There is also a very vibrant A&D startup ecosystem in Chennai. Some of
the promising ones include Agnikul Kosmos, GalaxEye, Big Bang Boom

Technologies, The ePlane Company and Big Cat Wireless.

Apart from these, there are over 80,000 micro, small, and medium
enterprise (MSME) units primarily catering to automotive, precision and
heavy engineering sectors. Globally renowned technical institution IIT
Madras and College of Engineering, Guindy are consistently ranked
amongst the top engineering educational institutions of the country.
Chennai Mathematical Institute and numerous premier private universities
are also in this node. These institutions contribute to the highly qualified

human resources in the city.
4.2 TIRUCHIRAPALLI

Tiruchirappalli (commonly referred to as Trichy) is the 4th largest city in
Tamil Nadu and is centrally located along the banks of the river Cauvery.
It is a major educational hub, housing institutes like the Indian Institute of
Management (IIM), National Institute of Technology (NIT) and Tamil Nadu
National Law University, which are amongst the most highly rated
educational and research institutions in the country. It is also a major
energy equipment and fabrication centre in the county. Some of the salient

features of this city for supporting A&D ecosystem are:

» 10000+ MSME units covering fabrication, boilers, Agro industries,

and engineering & repairing units.

14|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

" Ordnance Factory Trichy (OFT), manufacturing rifles, grenade
launchers, etc.

= Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project (HAPP) Trichy manufacturing special
alloys like Titanium and other alloys, which have defence
applications.

« Trichy Engineering Cluster (TREAT), which is one of its kind in the
country, providing common facilities for the metal fabrication

industries.

4.3 COIMBATORE

Coimbatore, also called the “Textile Capital of Southern India” is a major
industrial city located in the western part of the State on the foothills of the
Western Ghats. It is the second largest urban agglomeration in the State
and sixteenth largest in the country. This city with a salubrious climate is a
leading hub in the country for manufacturing, healthcare, textiles, motors

and pumps, education and skill development in the country.

“When someone says it is not possible, there will be somebody in
Coimbatore who will make it happen” is a famous quote which sums the
capability of Coimbatore in the industrial domain. In line with that, India’s
first A&D innovation hub called CODISSIA Defence Innovation and Atal
Incubation Centre (CDIIC) were established at Coimbatore jointly by the
Ministry of Defence and the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries
Association. Coimbatore also hosts the Forge Forward Accelerator, which is
catalysing the national-scale industrial digital transformation by enabling
Government and Industry to collaborate with start-ups as innovation &
growth partners. Finest engineering educational institutions like the
Government College of Technology, Coimbatore Institute of Technology,
and PSG College of Technology are located here, which ensures a steady

supply of highly qualified and trained resources.

Some of the salient features of this city for supporting A&D ecosystem

are:

15|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

1,00,000 MSME units in textiles, garments, pumps, engineering,
manufacturing, metal fabrication, machine tools, spare parts and
precision engineering.

Major private companies that operate in the A&D domain are LMW,
L&T Defence, Roots Industries, Pricol, MAK+Air., LGB, Chakradhara
Aerospace etc.

It has a significant presence of international A&D firms either
independently or in form of joint ventures. Some of the notable ones
are L&T MBDA, Elgi-Sauer and Eaton Aerospace.

The Cordite Factory that manufactures propellants for different types

of ammunition is located close to Coimbatore.

4.4 HOSUR

Hosur is a major industrial city located in the north-western part of the

State, in proximity to Bangalore. It is home to major industries in

automotive, aerospace electronics, and precision engineering domains.

Hosur has been one of the fastest growing cities of the country in the past

few decades due to its rapid industrial growth. Its geographic proximity to

Bangalore has facilitated growth in the A&D ecosystem. Some of the salient

features of this city to support the A&D ecosystem are:

5000+ MSME units and numerous large industries in engineering,
auto components, precision machining, etc.

Taneja Aerospace, which has capabilities to manufacture aircraft
standard parts, Titan Engineering and Automation Ltd, which
manufactures precision components for aero-engines, airframes etc,
AVTEC, which manufactures transmission systems for the commercial
and military applications. AxleTech, which manufactures military
grade mobility sub-systems, Caterpillar, Delta Electronics are some
of the key A&D industries that have a large presence in the city. Air
Works, which is the oldest and the largest private sector MRO in the

country, undertaking both commercial and military MRO activities, is

16|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

located at Hosur. Hosur also hosts other companies like Micro-Tech
CNC, Dynaspede Integrated Systems Ltd, Magtorq Systems, CUMI,
which have been playing a yeoman role in the growth of the A&D

industry in the country.

4.5 SALEM

Salem is the fifth largest city of Tamil Nadu and is also called “Steel
City”. It lies at the heart of the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor and
is almost equidistant from the other nodes. It is a major hub for steel,
textiles and food processing industries supported by a dynamic educational
and skilling ecosystem. Some of the salient features of this city for

supporting A&D ecosystem are:

« Possesses rich deposits of minerals and is a hub for making metals
and steel.

= 8000+ MSME Units in engineering, technical textiles and Agro-
Industry.

= The Aerospace Engineers, which is a large supplier to OEMS like HAL
and Boeing is situated at Salem. Salem Steel Plant and JSW Steels

that produce speciality metals are also located here.

The corridor would stretch between the five Nodes and would cover the

following districts:

1 Chennai 2 Kanchipuram 3 Tiruvallur

4 Chengalpattu 5 Ranipet 6 Vellore

7 Tirupattur 8 Krishnagiri 9 Dharmapuri
10 | Salem 11 Erode 12 Tirupur

13 | Coimbatore 14 Namakkal 15 Tiruchirappalli
16 | Ariyalur 17 Perambalur 18 Kallakurichi
19 | Villupuram 20 Tiruvannamalai | 21 Karur

17|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

The Defence Industrial Corridor Nodes as defined in Annexure III.

18|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

5 EOCUSISEGIORS

Tamil Nadu has been part of the Aerospace and Defence industrial
growth with several DPSUs, PSUs and private industry being either TIER I
suppliers or part of the domestic and global supply chain for several OEMs
running their operations from the State. The State-based industry has
partnered with the DRDO, ISRO and other development agencies for
several projects. Based on the industrial strength, certain subsectors have
been identified for fuelling the growth in the Aerospace and Defence sector
in the State. These sectors are described below:

5.1 Aircraft standard parts & Drones

The manufacturing and maintenance of military aircraft in the country
has been mostly concentrated with the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, a
defence PSU under the administrative control of MoD/DDP. The opening up
of the defence manufacturing and the civil aviation sectors with incentives
from State and Central governments has motivated private industries to

enter the market in recent decades.

Tamil Nadu has gained expertise in the field of precision
manufacturing over the years given the large number of industries
supporting the automotive industry. Several private firms have diversified
into developing and manufacturing of aircraft standard parts and engine
components over the years and are part of the supply chain for many global
OEMs and HAL.

With the sector expected to grow both for military and civil aviation,
special impetus by the government will also facilitate setting up of Centre

of Excellence for Advanced Manufacturing in the TNDIC nodes.

20|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

5.2 Mobility- Armoured vehicles, Tanks & Specialist Vehicles
The armed forces have always required high mobility vehicles for
logistical and transportation needs for different terrains and theatres such

as counter-insurgency, border protection and personnel carriers.

The current operational set of such platforms includes Armoured
Personnel Carriers, Infantry Combat Vehicles and Multi-Purpose Vehicles.
These mobility platforms are widely used by the army across different units
and operations. With plans to modernize the army, these components need
to be regularly updated with better technology and mobility to make them
combat-ready while also fulfilling the logistical requirement for the newly

acquired platforms.

Some of the major industrial units from Tamil Nadu in the sector
include the Heavy Vehicles Factory & Engine Factory AVADI & Ashok
Leyland. Many industries from the State are Tier I / II suppliers to this

industry.

Considering the increasing demand for land-based systems for the
Armed forces and the capability available in Tamil Nadu in the sector, the
Government will strengthen the industrial sourcing supply chain for this

sector.

5.3 Aircraft Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO)

The Aircraft Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul (MRO) industry is
involved in overhaul, periodic inspection, repairs and upgrades of an aircraft
or aircraft equipment to ensure reliable operations of the fleet. MRO is a
multi-billion-dollar industry expected to grow at a robust rate year-on-year.
The demand for this sector is driven by a fleet growing at 9.9% annually,
from around 620 in FY 2018 to a projected fleet of over 2,300 in FY 2040.

The military MRO requirements will continue to rise as additional

squadrons are added as part of modernisation of the IAF and the aviation

21|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

branches of the Indian Army and Navy. In addition, the ageing of the
existing fleet will necessitate a greater focus on Military MROs to be
established by the Indian industry in addition to the maintenance carried

out by services in their own repair yards.

The MRO industry in India is picking up with major tie-up
announcements between Indian Industry and Global OEMs. The private
MRO operating out of Hosur is one of the major MRO in the country
servicing this sector. The Government of Tamil Nadu would also encourage
and support the growth of the MRO industry for all platforms (ships, aircraft
and land systems). The presence of four international airports in the State
(co-located with the industrial ecosystem and a large number of
international Air Traffic Routes over the State) and the willingness of the
Government of Tamil Nadu to earmark required land parcels adjoining
these airports would serve as a start point for the exponential growth of
the MRO industry in Tamil Nadu. The Government of Tamil Nadu would also
earmark the required land for MRO in the new greenfield international

airport which is being set up at Parandur near Chennai.

5.4 Missiles, Rockets and Ammunition

The Indian missiles programme under the aegis of DRDO labs has
helped India achieve self-reliance to a large extent in this sector. With the
Government of India’s initiative in opening this sector to private industry,
licences have been issued to private industries including firms based out of
Tamil Nadu. Several components for the production are sourced from the
private industries for the production needs of DRDO labs and DPSUs

involved in the integration of these products.

The presence of Cordite factory at Aravankadu and High Energy
Projectile Factory are two public enterprises which are leading the sectorial

presence in the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor. Firms like L&T

22|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

missile division and L&T MBDA at Coimbatore are leading the private

manufacturing sector in the State.

The Policy aims to improve the manufacturing output in these sectors

and attract larger orders and OEMs into the State.

5.5 Sensors, Radars, Communication and Electronic Warfare

With Chennai being the market leader in the country for electronics
industry, the promotion of defence-based electronics will be one of the
focus areas for the government. Many private industries in the State have
been involved in large scale developmental programmes of DRDO such as
the NETRA AWE&CS. The development of electronics parks in TNDIC nodes
will promote this sector. According to an assessment conducted using fDi
Benchmark, an investment location comparison tool, Chennai emerged as
the most cost-effective location and the second overall in the top 100

electronics FDI destinations.

The Government aims to leverage and strengthen the existing
electronics industry in the State to attract developmental, indigenisation

and import substitution orders in the Defence Industrial Corridor.

5.6 Small Arms and Assault rifles

Ordnance Factory Tiruchirappalli is one of the leading manufacturers
of small arms and assault rifles in the country. With private industries being
issued licences for the manufacturing of these weapons and the Indian
Government'’s initiative to promote manufacturing of the imported weapons
in India, it is expected that private industry participation in this sector will
grow in the coming years. Accordingly, the Government of Tamil Nadu plans
to promote public and private participation in the developmental and
manufacturing programme related to small arms and Assault rifles in the

Defence Industrial Corridor.

23|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

5.7 Space

Indian Space Research Organisation has set up ISRO Propulsion
Complex (IPRC) at Mahendragiri in Tirunelveli District. IPRC handles
assembly, integration and testing of earth storable propellant engines,
cryogenic engines and stages for launch vehicles; high altitude testing of
upper stage engines and spacecraft thrusters as well as testing of its sub
systems; production and supply of cryogenic propellants for Indian
cryogenic rocket programme, etc. It also carries out Research &
Development (R&D) and Technology Development Programmes (TDP)
towards continued improvement of its contribution to the Indian space

programme.

The Government of Tamil Nadu is currently acquiring land at
Kulasekarapatnam in Thoothukudi District for ISRO, which would be setting
up a new space launch station. Government of Tamil Nadu would establish
a dedicated facility for hosting the industries related to the space domain
in the geographical proximity of ISRO facilities, to support industries which

operate in this domain.

The Government of Tamil Nadu will also support the start-ups,
institutions and enterprises involved in building of satellite components,

satellites, components for launch vehicles, etc.

5.8 Ship Building

Tamil Nadu is the state with the second longest coastline in India.
The Government will explore the opportunities of utilising this geographical
advantage to set up ship building yards in the State. Tamil Nadu has a huge
potential in the ship building industry with L&T Kattupalli shipyard poised
to play a major role in the nation’s ship building efforts. Major sourcing of
components by shipyards such as Cochin Shipyard Ltd is from the state of
Tamil Nadu.

24|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Government Initiatives

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

6. GOVERNMENT INITIATIVES
The Government plans to invest about Rs. 5000 crores (USD 630 Mn)

over a period of 10 years to catalyse the A&D ecosystem through various
new initiatives. The details will be worked out by TIDCO as part of the
implementation of TNDIC. The following are the initiatives by the
Government of Tamil Nadu for achieving the objectives of the Tamil Nadu

Defence Industrial Corridor.
Technical Enablers

6.1 Centre of Excellence for Emerging Technologies in

Manufacturing

Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited (TIDCO) will
set up state of the art, industry-oriented “Centres of Excellence for
Emerging Technologies in Manufacturing”, in association with private
players, to enable industries to access innovative technology solutions for
effective, efficient and economic production. This scheme will be
implemented at a total outlay of Rs. 750 crores (USD 100 Mn?). This will
include areas like product design and systems engineering, predictive
engineering, industry 4.0 and Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), additive
manufacturing and skilling centres. One CoE has been established jointly
with Dassault Systemes and two more are being established jointly with
Siemens and GE Aviation. These will have spokes across the state, which
would enable access to advanced technologies to the academia and

industries across the State.

6.2 Drones

The Government of Tamil Nadu has undertaken a detailed study

through the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras to examine the

3 USDINR FX Rate of 75 has been used in this Policy for reference. For values cited in the Policy or in
case of any discrepancy, the amount quoted in Indian Rupees shall prevail

26|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

feasibility of setting up a drone range in Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial
Corridor. TIDCO will take further steps to develop it into a full-fledged
facility for design, development, manufacture, testing, training and
certification of drones. A drone range would be established with common
facilities for design, development, manufacture, testing of drones and
would host a unique ecosystem which would help the drone industry to
thrive in Tamil Nadu. The Tamil Nadu UAV Corporation was started on
January 25, 2021 Anna University, Chennai. This Corporation which would
be the nodal agency in the State for the adoption of drone-based services
would be a technical partner for the proposed drone range. Drone pilot
training centres would be provided with necessary support by the
Government of Tamil Nadu. The Government of Tamil Nadu also recognises
the segment of Drones as a Service and would encourage service providers

to provide their services to the nation and the world from Tamil Nadu.
6.3 Common Facility Centres

TIDCO will facilitate the setting up of common facility centres for
manufacturing, testing and warehousing in each node of the Tamil Nadu
Defence Industrial Corridor in a phased manner at an outlay of Rs. 20 crore
(USD 2.6 Mn)* per year per node for a period of 5 years in the form of
equity /debt / grant.

6.4 Innovation, Research & Development

Sustained growth in Aerospace & Defence sector demands strong
R&D base and close Academia-Industry interaction. Innovative
technologies and ideas are to be incubated in the academic institutions and
R&D laboratories. The Government will facilitate setting up of Aerospace
and Defence Research facilities in the State. The Government will also
facilitate cross pollination of new product development and emerging

technologies from the other domains into A&D domain. Cross leveraging of

4 USDINR FX Rate of 75 has been used in this Policy for reference. For values cited in the Policy or in
case of any discrepancy, the amount quoted in Indian Rupees shall prevail

27|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

technologies like electric mobility, autonomous mobility, artificial
intelligence, Machine Learning, gamification etc., in the A&D domain will be

facilitated by the Government.

The Government will encourage the industry to set up and adopt labs
in the existing institutes for specific research initiatives. The Government
will assist in bringing R&D cooperation with international and national

institutions.

SIPCOT has in collaboration with a leading incubator established
Force of Rapid Transformation (FORT) at Chennai and Hosur to power the
innovation ecosystem in the state to catalyse industrial transformation in
the digital age, combining manufacturing excellence with technology
leadership, entrepreneurial innovation, and future-ready talent. These

would be replicated across multiple sites in the State.

Guidance Tamil Nadu has also established a WorkLabs Cell for
facilitating industry-academia collaboration in the A&D sector for bringing
R&D cooperation, developing a skilled workforce and innovation with

international and national institutions.

6.5 Facilitation and support for Certification Processes

As Aerospace and Defence Industries are highly regulated, all
manufactured parts and services must be certified for their reliability and
certification is a compulsory and detailed process which needs support. The
Government will provide financial and technical support to Aerospace &

Defence industries to obtain necessary certifications.

Skilling Enablers
6.6 Flight Training Schools

The Government of Tamil Nadu taking into cognizance the growth

potential for aviation in the country, the need for pilots and the current

28|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

dependence on the foreign pilot training schools, will encourage private
FTOs to establish their operations in the State. The Government of Tamil
Nadu would identify suitable locations with airstrips, airspace and social
infrastructure and support the FTOs to undertake their ground, simulators

and flying training activities.

6.7 Human Capital Development

The Government of Tamil Nadu will facilitate augmentation of the
quality and quantity of human capital for the A&D industry, by
providing opportunities for continuous learning and improvement
through partnership with Global/Indian OEMs/Institutions to establish
new/upgrade existing ITIs/Polytechnics/Engineering Colleges, and

Universities in Aerospace and Defence specific skills training.
Financial Enablers

6.8 Tamil Nadu Emerging Sector Seed Fund

The Government of Tamil Nadu has setup the “Tamil Nadu Emerging
Sector Seed Fund (TNESSF)” with a 500 crore (USD 66 Mn>) corpus to
support new ventures in the emerging sectors, including aerospace and
defence. Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited (TIDCO),
TIDEL Park Limited are the sponsors of the fund and Tamil Nadu
Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation (TNIFMC) is the fund
Manager. Aspiring and qualifying aerospace and defence start-ups can
apply for the TNESSF through the TNIFMC or StartUpTN portal.

6.9 Sustainable Financing of Investments

In order to improve access to sustainable finance for industries, the

following options are available to manufacturing Projects in the State. The

5 USDINR FX Rate of 75 has been used in this Policy for reference. For values cited in the Policy or in
case of any discrepancy, the amount quoted in Indian Rupees shall prevail

29|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

implementation of these initiatives will be as mentioned in the Tamil Nadu

Industrial Policy.
i. Equity Financing

Investors can submit business proposals to Tamil Nadu Industrial
Development Corporation (TIDCO) to come on board their Project as
an equity investor. Equity participation by TIDCO in the Joint Sector
projects ranges from 11 to 50 %, the associate sector ranges from 2
to 11% equity. The support service includes ventures with 1% equity
from TIDCO. Projects that have a high capital requirement in the initial
years of investment may also be offered hybrid security financing in
the form of convertible debentures, or land as equity in projects with

an associated investment plan, and exit plan, on a case-to-case basis.
ii. Industrial Ecosystem Fund

Under the Tamil Nadu Investment Promotion Program, the Small
Infrastructure Project Empowered Committee (SIPEC) supported many
small-scale infrastructure projects that can be replicated/scaled up.
The Government has created an Industrial Ecosystem Fund with a
corpus of Rs. 500 cr. to support small infrastructure projects and

ecosystem creation.
a. Small Infrastructure Projects

Last mile connectivity is extremely important to make industries
and industrial clusters, as it reduces logistics costs and makes the
investment viable and products more competitive. Such
connectivity may also serve a larger public purpose by connecting
nearby rural and suburban localities in some cases. The
Government shall support such projects to create physical
connectivity and other infrastructure needs of standalone
industries or industrial clusters/parks or industrial

warehousing/logistics projects. The fund shall be used to provide

30|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

grants to support the development of public roads, power, water

supply, sewerage and other infrastructure facilities.
b. Ecosystem Creation

Projects that create or enable the ecosystem such as creation of
innovation centres or research parks and those that support
creation of common facilities/ecosystem for industries in sunrise
sectors for purposes of proto typing, testing, etc shall also be

eligible for partial funding under this fund.

The fund will be created through contributions from SIPCOT and
TIDCO with matching grants from Government of Tamil Nadu and

scaled through funding from external agencies re-invested profits.
iii. Research & Technology Fund

The Government shall create a Research & Technology Fund with a
corpus of Rs. 100 crore to support research and development and
technology adoption by existing industries in sunrise sectors including
A&D sector. Projects that invest heavily in R&D in the initial years of
the project shall be eligible for support towards R&D investment
through this fund. This shall help in bridging the viability gap for such

projects.

Existing sub-large suppliers of large companies that seek to improve
their product, process and performance efficiency across its supply
chain by adopting advanced Industry 4.0 technologies such as IoT shall

be supported through this fund.
iv. Digital Accelerator under Yaadhum Oorae

The Government of Tamil Nadu has already announced a ‘Digital
Accelerator’ scheme under Yaadhum Oorae with American Tamil
Entrepreneurs Association (ATEA) to promote start-ups investing in

Tamil Nadu from the US _ in_~ various’ fields such as

31|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

IT/Healthcare/EV/emerging areas on IoT, AI, Cloud Computing /SDGs.
It is proposed that a grant of 10% of capital raised be provided towards
operational and capital expenditure, with a cap of Rs 1 crore per start-
up. Similar funds may be created for start-ups that contribute to
innovation, from other countries with Tamil diaspora. The sanction of
the grants shall be evaluated by a special committee and funded from
the Tamil Nadu Start-up Fund of Funds.

v. Term Loans

Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Limited (TIIC) offers
term loan of up to Rs. 40 crore (US$ 5.3 million)® under the General

Term Loan Scheme.
Infrastructural Enablers
6.10 Industrial Housing

The State supports the walk-to-work concept to decongest the cities
and improve work-life balance. Industrial projects will be encouraged to
develop accommodation and hostel facilities for employees within the 5 km
radius of the work area. The Government of Tamil Nadu has taken the
initiative to develop two industrial housing facilities to accommodate
20,000 workers to cater to the housing needs of five industrial parks in the
Sriperumbudur region. This shall be provided on rental basis to the industry

and its workers.
6.11 Augmenting and Creating the Industrial Infrastructure

Apart from funding support and ease of regulatory frameworks as
mentioned above, Government through TIDCO/SIPCOT will also establish
Aerospace and Defence Industrial Parks in all the nodes of TNDIC. The

Government would encourage cluster development approach in building the

© USDINR FX Rate of 75 has been used in this Policy for reference. For values cited in the Policy or in
case of any discrepancy, the amount quoted in Indian Rupees shall prevail

32|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

aerospace and defence manufacturing eco-system by creating the required

physical infrastructure.

The Government will endeavour to augment the rail/road/air /sea

/network connectivity to the Aerospace / Defence parks/clusters.

Operational Enablers

6.12 Ease of doing business

The State is implementing new initiatives such as completely digitizing
G2B interactions through the development of a New Single Window Portal,
the development of a Central Inspection System to monitor compliance
inspection, Deemed Clearances, Comprehensive Land Portal, Construction
Permit Portal, Investment Facilitation Desks, and automatic renewal of

select licenses.

The Single Window Portal offers more than 180 services (including
sector-specific and sector-agnostic clearances) offered by 38 departments

making the process completely faceless, contactless, and paperless.

‘Biz Buddy’, Tamil Nadu’s industry help desk portal is designed to help
businesses report operational issues that need to be resolved by the various
departments of the government, or help calls on disbursal of incentives and
approval of pre-establishment, establishment and operation clearances
required, in 30 days on a best effort basis. The platform offers features for
tracking and monitoring the status of the application through SMS and

email notifications.

A dedicated desk and portal for Non-Resident Tamils -— “Yaadhum
Oorae” has been created to encourage and facilitate investments in Tamil
Nadu by the substantial Tamil diaspora spread across the globe. The State
also has joint working committee agreements with Japan, the USA, the UK,
the UAE, South Korea and Germany to furtherance of international

cooperation for industries.

33|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

6.13 Support for building Partnerships & Marketing

The Aerospace and Defence industry largely depends on the major
manufacturers of aircraft / defence systems and their vendors. Partnership
with them is the best way to build the eco-system. Government
participation with the private sector to form consortium of industries would
enable them to approach the OEMs/ DRDO / Armed Forces for executing

work packages.

The Government will ensure support for building such partnerships, and
the modalities will include special partnership meets, industry
summits/events/exhibitions, B2B sourcing meets, investor summits,
special delegations by the Tamil Nadu Government to various large
manufacturers, etc. Government will provide necessary support to industry
for interaction with Defence Offset Management Wing (DOMW) to
encourage foreign / domestic investors to invest in Tamil Nadu Aerospace

& Defence parks to meet their offset contractual obligations.

34|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Incentives & Concessions for

Aerospace & Defence
Manufacturing Sector

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

7. INCENTIVES & CONCESSIONS FOR AEROSPACE & DEFENCE
MANUFACTURING SECTOR

New/Expansion investments in Aerospace & Defence manufacturing
in Tamil Nadu made from April 1, 2022, will be considered eligible for
availing incentives under the various categories discussed below. The
company can choose the incentive either from this A&D policy or from the
special incentive for sunrise sectors offered by TN Industrial policy. This
must be decided by the company at the time of setting up and cannot be
changed subsequently. These are mutually exclusive and, a one-time

choice has to be exercised at the beginning of the project by the company.

In view of the specific nature of the Aerospace & Defence
manufacturing, the following investment categories have been identified for

the purpose of administering the incentives:

Project Investment Criteria Range | Standard Min

Category Minimum Maximum Investment employment
Period

Sub-Large 50 300 4 years Nil

Large 300 500 4 years 50

Mega 500 5000 4 years 200

Ultra-Mega 5000 - 7 years 500

Investment made within the Standard Investment Period shall be

considered for eligibility under above project categories.

Projects in Manufacturing in the Large, Mega and Ultra Mega category
located in Tamil Nadu creating employment for the minimum number of
persons mentioned above will be eligible for incentives under this Policy. In
view of strategic nature of the sector and greater need for automation, the
minimum employment criteria for Sub-Large category have been exempted

for Aerospace & Defence Manufacturing projects.

36|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

The definition of EFA would be governed by TNIP 2021 or as notified
by GoTN from time to time. The applicable incentives will be administered

as per the following district classification:

District Category Districts covered

“A” Category Districts | Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and

(4 districts) Tiruvallur

“B” Category Districts | Coimbatore, Erode, Karur, Krishnagiri,
(12 districts) Namakkal, The WNilgiris, Ranipet, Salem,
Tiruchirappalli, Tirupattur, Tiruppur, and Vellore

“C” Category Districts | Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul,
(22 districts) Kallakurichi, Kanniyakumari, Madurai,
Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Perambulur,
Pudukkottai, Ramanathapuram, Sivagangai,
Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Theni, Thiruvarur,
Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tiruvannamalai,

Villupuram and Virudhunagar

7.1.1.1 Incentives for A&D investment in Sub-Large and Large
Category

Aerospace & Defence Manufacturing Investments made from April 1,
2022, in Greenfield/Expansion projects, will be considered eligible for
availing incentives under the Incentives for A&D investment in Sub-Large
(Rs 50 to 300 crores) & Large (Rs 300 to 500 crores) Projects:

7.1.1.2 Investment Promotion Subsidy
The units can avail of one of the following options for investment
promotion - a) Fixed Capital Subsidy, or b) Turnover based Subsidy. These

options are mutually exclusive, and a one-time choice has to be exercised

at the beginning of the Project by the investor.

37|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

I. Fixed Capital Subsidy:

Projects can avail a fixed capital subsidy as provided in the

Table below:
Fixed Capital Subsidy for A&D manufacturing units (%
Total EFA/Disbursal Period)
Location Category Sub Large Large
(Rs. 50 crores - (Rs. 300 crores—
Rs. 300 crores & | Rs. 500 crores &
50 jobs) 150 jobs)
A Category District 5%/5 years 7% /5 years
B Category District 7%/5 years 10% /10 years
C Category 10% /10years 12%/10 years
District
(or)

II. B. Turnover Based Subsidy (TBS):

Large & Sub-large industries in A&D sector supplying to A & D majors
listed in [Annexure 2 (a) to (c)] will be eligible for reimbursement of up to
2% of annual turnover arising from supply to A&D companies for 5 years

from date of commencement of operations, subject to following conditions:

a. The cap on the annual percentage of Turnover Subsidy is 2% and this

shall be scaled as per the formula given below:

Turnover based

subsidy for Sub 2%* (Investment ‘Eligible A&D Annual
Large & Large A&D]| = Factor)*(A&D * Turnover’ in given
projects for a given Turnover Factor) year ‘n’

year ‘n’

Wherein ‘Investment Factor’’ is the ratio of ‘Eligible Fixed Asset

committed by the A&D manufacturing entity within the Standard

7 EFA (in Rs. Crores)/Rs. 300 crores

38| Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Investment Period’ and ‘Minimum investment for Mega Category

Investment (i.e., Rs.500 crores)’.

‘A&D Turnover Factor’ is the ratio of ‘share (%) of annual turnover
from Tamil Nadu attributable to supply made to A & D majors listed in
[Annexure 2 (a) to (c)]®’. In case of standalone/dedicated A&D entities,

100% share of A&D supply shall be considered.

‘n’ is the Turnover based Subsidy incentive disbursal period which is 5

years from CoD.

‘Eligible A&D Annual Turnover’ is the Annual Turnover from Tamil Nadu
attributable to supply made to A & D majors listed in [Annexure 2 (a) to
(c)].

b. The company can choose to avail the Turnover based Subsidy from the
date of commercial production or upon achieving the minimum eligible
investment for Structured Package in the given District, whichever is
later, up to a cap of 4% of cumulative investment in Eligible Fixed Assets

per annum for a period of 5 years.

7.1.1.3 Land Cost Incentive
For eligible projects in SIPCOT/TIDCO/SIDCO/ELCOT/ JVs of TIDCO,
land allotment will be made at a 20% concessional rate in “A” & “B”
category districts and at a 50% concessional rate in “C” category
districts up to 20% of EFA. For private land in “C” districts, a 50%
subsidy will be offered on the cost of land as per guideline value up to
an extent of 50 acres and subject to land cost not exceeding 20% of EFA
and a cap of Rs. 2 cr. provided that at least 70% of the land is used for
manufacturing operations. In case the investor chooses to avail the land
cost subsidy, land will be excluded from Eligible Fixed Assets for the

purpose of Investment Promotion Subsidy.

8 (A&D turnover/Manufacturing turnover), If the company has multiple legal entities with business operations
in Tamil Nadu with no clear demarcation of turnover, the turnover from the manufacturing operations in the
State shall be considered to estimate the share of A&D turnover.

39|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

7.1.1.4 Stamp Duty Incentive

100% concession on Stamp Duty payable on lease or purchase of
land/ shed/ buildings meant for industrial use shall be offered in the Parks
promoted by SIPCOT/ TIDCO/ SIDCO/JVs of TIDCO/ ELCOT or any other
Government Agency. In case of private lands, the stamp duty concession
will be given as 100% back-ended subsidy for up to 50 acres on fulfilment

of investment and employment commitment.
7.1.1.5 Electricity Tax Exemption

A&D Industries will be given 100% exemption on electricity tax on
power purchased from TANGEDCO or generated and consumed from
captive sources for the first 5 years from the date of commercial production.
Expansion projects will be entitled to exemption of tax on the incremental

electricity consumption for a period 5 years.
7.1.1.6 Training Subsidy

A&D units in the State with investments more than Rs. 50 crores will
be provided skilling support in form of a Training Subsidy of Rs. 10000 per
worker per month for 1 year for a maximum of 50 employees who are

residents of Tamil Nadu.
7.1.1.7 Green Industry Incentive

Industrial projects undertaking green initiatives for recycling waste
and water for industrial use and for sustainable energy usage, coupled with
online monitoring (wherever applicable) indicated below, shall be eligible
for a 25% subsidy on cost of setting up such environmental protection
infrastructure in the following solution areas subject to a limit of Rs. 1 cr.
This will be as provided in TNIP 2021

40|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

7.1.1.8 Enhanced Incentive for Quality Certification

Projects obtaining certifications like ISO, ISI, BIS, FPO, BEE,
AGMARK, and ECOMARK or any other national or international certification
shall be given a subsidy of 50% of the total cost incurred for obtaining the
certification, as certified by the Chartered Accountant, limited to Rs. 50
lakhs for Sub-Large projects and Rs. 1.25 crore for Large, Mega, and Ultra

Mega projects for the period of investment.
7.1.1.9 Product Certification Incentive

Subsidy will be provided to A&D industries in the State towards
expenses incurred for product certifications for all from any national or
international agencies, as notified from time to time, at 50% of the total
cost incurred for obtaining the /product certification, as certified by the

Chartered Accountant, limited to Rs.50 lakh for the period of investment.
7.1.1.10 Enhanced Incentive for Intellectual Property Creation

The Government will reimburse 50% of the expenditure incurred by
the project for the investment period for patents, copyrights, trademarks,
and geographical indicators registration subject to a maximum of Rs. 50
lakhs for Sub Large projects and Rs. 1.25 crore for Large, Mega, and Ultra

Mega projects for the period of investment.
7.1.1.11 SGST Refund on Capital Goods

Eligibility for SGST refund on capital goods will be as per the Tamil
Nadu Industrial Policy.

7.1.1.12 Interest Subvention

Interest Subvention of 5% as a rebate in the rate of interest shall be
provided on actual term loans taken for the purpose of financing the project
from TIIC, for a period of 6 years subject to the limits provided in the Table

below:

41|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Sub-Large 5% 5 lakhs
Large 5% 6 20 lakhs
Mega and 5% 6 As per TNIP
ultra-mega

7.1.2 Special Structured Package of Incentives
7.1.2.1 Mega and Ultra Mega Projects

A&D projects above Rs.500 crore will be eligible for Special Structured

Package of Incentives applicable for Sunrise sectors as per TNIP 2021.

7.1.2.2 Pivotal Projects

The projects for manufacturing and assembling of civil/military
aircraft, ships, Main Battle Tanks, aeroengines, etc. for A&D application and
other aerospace and defence platforms are considered key initiatives as
they will help the proliferation of aerospace and defence industrial units and
enhancement of manufacturing capabilities in the State. Such advanced
manufacturing projects from A&D_ industries with the combined
responsibilities of Design, Development, Manufacturing, Testing, and
Certification in the State would be treated as special pivotal projects and
the Government would consider sanctioning special funding in the form of
equity of such a joint venture in partnership with Tamil Nadu Industrial
Development Corporation Ltd (TIDCO) or a suitable grant as a negotiable
percentage of EFA.

Higher incentives /concessions and relaxation of the conditions
mentioned in this Policy will be offered for deserving cases giving due
weightage to investment, direct and indirect employment generated and

potential for attracting further investment through vendors and ancillaries.

42|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

7.1.2.3 Indian Offset Partners

Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP) 2020 offers a multiplier factor
of 2 for investments in TN Defence Industrial Corridor. New/Existing
manufacturing units in Tamil Nadu to undertaking projects under the offset
obligation’s requirements of the Ministry of Defence will be offered special

package of incentives.

7.1.3 Incentives for MSME for A & D Investments

The Government of Tamil Nadu offers a wide range of schemes and

incentives for enterprises classified as Micro, Small or Medium Enterprise

based on the following composite criteria:

Micro Rs. 1 crore Rs. 5 crores
Small Rs. 10 crores Rs. 50 crores
Medium Rs. 50 crores Rs. 250 crores

A new or expansion unit in the MSME category could choose between this
policy or TN MSME policy at the time of seeking incentives. This one-time
choice cannot be altered subsequently. As per this policy, the Micro, Small,

and Medium Enterprises are eligible for the following:

7.1.3.1 Investment Promotion Subsidy

A & D MSME would be eligible for Investment Promotion Subsidy as
per prevailing MSME Policy

43|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

7.1.3.2 Land Cost Incentive

For eligible A & D MSMEs in SIPCOT/TIDCO/SIDCO/ELCOT/ JVs of
TIDCO, land allotment will be made at a 20% concessional rate in “A” &“B”
category districts and at a 50% concessional rate in “C” category districts
up to 20% of EFA. For private land in “C” districts, a 50% subsidy will be
offered on the cost of land as per guideline value up to an extent of 50
acres and subject to land cost not exceeding 20% of EFA and a cap of Rs.
2 crore provided that at least 70% of the land is used for manufacturing
operations. In case the investor chooses to avail the land cost subsidy, land
will be excluded from Eligible Fixed Assets for the purpose of Investment

Promotion Subsidy.
7.1.3.3 Stamp Duty Incentive

100% concession on Stamp Duty payable on lease or purchase of
land/ shed/ buildings meant for industrial use shall be offered in the Parks
promoted by SIPCOT/ TIDCO/ SIDCO/JVs of TIDCO/ ELCOT or any other
Government Agency. In case of private lands, the stamp duty concession
will be given as 100% back-ended subsidy for up to 50 acres on fulfilment

of investment and employment commitment.
7.1.3.4 Electricity Tax Exemption

A&D MSME will be given 100% exemption on electricity tax on power
purchased from TANGEDCO or generated and consumed from captive
sources for the first 5 years from the date of commercial production.
Expansion projects will be entitled to exemption of tax on the incremental

electricity consumption for a period 5 years.
7.1.3.5 Training Subsidy

A &D MSME units in the State will be provided skilling support in the
form of a Training Subsidy of Rs. 10000 per worker per month for 1 year

for a maximum of 50 employees who are residents of Tamil Nadu.

44|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

7.1.3.6 Green Industry Incentive

Industrial projects undertaking green initiatives for recycling waste
and water for industrial use and sustainable energy usage, coupled with
online monitoring (wherever applicable) indicated below, shall be eligible
for a 25% subsidy on the cost of setting up such environmental protection
infrastructure in the following solution areas subject to a limit of Rs. 1 crore.
This will be as provided in TNIP 2021.

7.1.3.7 Enhanced Incentive for Quality Certification

Projects obtaining certifications like ISO, ISI, BIS, FPO, BEE,
AGMARK, and ECOMARK or any other national or international certification
shall be given a subsidy of 50% of the total cost incurred for obtaining the
certification, as certified by the Chartered Accountant, limited to Rs. 50

lakhs for MSME projects for the period of investment.
7.1.3.8 Product Certification Incentive

Subsidy will be provided to A&D MSMEs in the State towards
expenses incurred for product certifications for all from any national or
international agencies, as notified from time to time, at 50% of the total
cost incurred for obtaining the product certification, as certified by the

Chartered Accountant, limited to Rs.50 lakh for the period of investment.
7.1.3.9 Enhanced Incentive for Intellectual Property Creation

The Government will reimburse 50% of the expenditure incurred by
the project for the investment period for patents, copyrights, trademarks,
and geographical indicators registration subject to a maximum of Rs. 50
lakhs for Sub Large projects and Rs. 1.25 crore for Large, Mega, and Ultra

Mega projects for the period of investment.

45|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

7.1.3.10 Interest Subvention

Interest Subvention would be provided to A&D MSME as per the Tamil Nadu
MSME Policy 2021 or its subsequent versions.

7.1.4 Special Project Incentives — Applicable for all category of
investments including MSME

This policy also envisions enabling ecosystem for Aerospace and
Defence industries in the State. MoD has set up Innovations for Defence
Excellence (iDEX) initiative under the Defence Innovation Organisation
(DIO) to use a multi-pronged approach and reach out/engage a large pool
of innovators/technocrats/professionals/academicians. The Ministry of
Defence has also come with a Make category of projects for transforming
the nation into a self-reliant one in the A&D domain. These special
incentives are applicable for all categories of investment (Start-ups,

MSMEs, Sub-large, Large, Mega and Ultra-Mega).

7.1.4.1 State Grant for iDEX start ups

To support the activities of Start-ups whose innovations are funded
through iDEX/TDF or any similar scheme, the Tamil Nadu Government
would provide grant to each A&D start-up to the projects which would be
executed in Tamil Nadu. This grant would be provided by Tamil Nadu Start-
up and Innovation Mission (TANSIM).

7.1.4.2 A&D Start-up Equity Financing

The Government of Tamil Nadu would also promote incubation and
acceleration facilities for the A&D start-ups. The Government of Tamil Nadu
through Tamil Nadu Emerging Sector Seed Fund (TNESSF) would invest in
the equity of the iDEX/TDF winners which have their facilities in Tamil Nadu.
7.1.4.3 ‘Make’ category projects:

The ‘Make’ Categories defined in Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP)

2020 aim to achieve the objective of self-reliance by involving greater

46|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

participation of Indian industrial eco-system including private sector. In
order to support the firms that undertake R&D activities under the Make 1
/2/3 categories (as defined under DAP 2020) from Tamil Nadu the following

incentives would be provided:

‘Fundin % of rototype
9% eee 5% 25% 50%
development cost)
Ca er Development Agenc
ve P sense 1 1.5 2
(DA) (Rs. in crore)

As per DAP 2020, (details may be referred from DAP2020)
Make I - Government funded design and development projects
Make II- Industry funded design and development projects

Make III- Import substitution projects
7.1.4.4 Technology Transfer

Approved service sector projects in the A&D sector units shall be
reimbursed 75% of the cost of technology transfer towards the first 5
vendor units and 50% towards the next 5 vendor units, subject to a
maximum Rs.50 lakhs towards each vendor within the policy period.

7.1.5 Special Incentives for setting up of A&D Industrial Parks:

Special incentives for setting up of A&D industrial parks will be
provided as per the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021 Section 15. However
if the A&D industrial Park is being established within a capital outlay of Rs
50 Crores, the incentives applicable under TN MSME Policy (Annexure I, Sl
No 7.3) will apply.

7.1.5.1 Incentives under Tamil Nadu R&D Policy 2022

The Government of Tamil Nadu offers a wide range of incentives for
R&D firms (Standalone and in-house) and GCCs that have a minimum

investment of Rs.50 crore in EFA within Standard Investment Period of 4

47|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

years and employment of 50 jobs, engaged in R&D in Tamil Nadu with

clearly demarcated facilities in/outside the projects.

7.1.5.2 Special Incentives based on TNIP 2021

vi.

Land cost incentive of 50% of the cost of purchase or lease of land
for up to 20 acres, subject to a ceiling of Rs.50 lakhs per acre.

R&D training incentive of Rs.10,000 per person per month for 12
months for the residents of Tamil Nadu.

Enhanced quality certification incentive of 50% of the total cost
incurred for obtaining the certification, limited to Rs. 1 crore for the
period of investment.

Enhanced intellectual property incentive of 50% of the expenditure
incurred by the project subject to maximum of Rs. 1 crore. for the
period of investment for in-house R&D for a patent, copyright,
trademarks, and Geographical indicators registration and up to Rs.5
crore for standalone R&D assets.

R&D projects shall also be eligible for standard incentives namely,
electricity tax exemption for 5 years, stamp duty exemption and
green industry incentive of up to Rs.1 crore as per TNIP 2021 para
13.5.

R&D projects shall also be eligible for SGST refund on capital goods
as specified in Para 13.6 of Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021.

7.1.5.3 Additional Incentives over & above TNIP 2021

Special Capital Subsidy of 25% on the Eligible Fixed Assets disbursed
in equal instalments of over 10 years from the date of purchase of
land, machinery and equipment subject to a ceiling pf Rs.25 crores,
whichever is lesser. As per TNIP 2021, EFA shall include investment
in R&D such as land, building, plant and machinery. To encourage
R&D, EFA shall include intangible R&D related expenditure, subject to
a ceiling of 20% of EFA.

Innovation lab incentive up to 50% of EFA created on innovation labs

shall be reimbursed, up to Rs. 1 crore.

48|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

iii. License Cost Incentive of 50% of the expenditure incurred on the
purchase of specialized software license within the Standard
Incentive Period of 4 years subject to ceiling of Rs.25 lakhs.

iv. Product Testing & Prototyping Incentive of 25% of the EFA on
establishing product testing and prototyping facilities, subject to a

ceiling of Rs.1 crore.

The above R&D incentives are applicable subject to meeting the eligibility
conditions detailed under section 4.2.1 to 4.2.10 of the TN R&D Policy 2022.

There are a considerable number of sub-sectors under the Aerospace and

Defence Domain, which the Government of Tamil Nadu would encourage to
establish and operate from the State. Some of these subsectors are Civil
Aviation, Drone as a Service, aero sports, etc. In these subsectors, the
largest capex is not a fixed asset. The Government of Tamil Nadu would
include the cost of the assets like helicopters, drones, airplanes, etc., which
would be of considerable cost in the EFA for all companies based out of
Tamil Nadu. Similar treatment would be accorded to space-based
companies which own satellites or transponders outside the state but are
based out of the State.

7.2.1 Incentives for Maintenance, Repair and Overhauling (MRO)

facilities

Given that the aircrafts fly over national and international boundaries,
Indian domestic MROs face stiff competition from foreign MRO players as
the airline operators have a choice to fly their aircraft to countries such as
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Dubai and China where MRO services are

available with favourable tax rates/structure.

In order to create a level-playing field for MROs to cater to domestic
airlines at export-competitive prices and support growth of value-added

MRO operations in Tamil Nadu, domestic MRO services may be treated as

49|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

deemed exports (zero import duty). The input GST liability would reduce

substantially which in turn helps the business to become more competitive.

7.2.2 Incentives for Service Sector Projects approved under DAP
2020

Approved service sector projects in A&D sector can avail one time
Employment incentive in the form of reimbursement of employer’s
contribution of PPF up to Rs.48,000 per annum for employees domiciled in
Tamil Nadu. The eligible service sector industries are those which are listed
in the various DPPs and DAP 2020 as services eligible for discharge of offset

obligations. These services are:

a) Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul

b) Upgradation/life extension of products
c) Engineering design and testing

d) Software development

e) R&D services (govt recognised R & D facilities)

In addition, the Government of Tamil Nadu could notify more service
sectors for being eligible for this incentive. To be eligible to claim this
incentive, a company should have at least 100 employees in their facility
at Tamil Nadu. This would be applicable for new employees on boarded
after 01 April, 2022 and would be valid only up to 31 March, 2024.

50|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Policy Implementation

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

8. POLICY IMPLEMENTATION

For MSME units, necessary facilitation will be provided by Facilitating
MSMEs of Tamil Nadu (FaMe TN - Erstwhile MSME Trade and Investment
Promotion Bureau). Necessary approvals will be facilitated through the
single window portal of Commissionerate of Industries and Commerce

without any charges.

TIDCO will provide all necessary facilitation for A&D projects
Necessary clearance will be facilitated by TIDCO through the online single
window portal of Guidance Tamil Nadu. A&D units would be eligible for a

50% subsidy on the single window clearance charges.

The procedure for sanctioning of incentives and sanctioning authorities
is as laid out in the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy for all investments
exceeding Rs 50 crores. Application for incentives shall be received by
Guidance/TIDCO and forwarded with its recommendations to the Industries
Department for sanction of incentives. SIPCOT is mandated to act as the
implementing and disbursal agency for all the incentives listed in the Policy.
The incentives would be provided to eligible industries by the Industries,
Investment Promotion, and Commerce Department based on the
recommendation of the Guidance/ Inter Departmental Committee to the
Government and disbursed by SIPCOT. The single window facilitation for all
investments above Rs 50 crores shall be undertaken by Guidance through

the single window portal.

All investments up to Rs.50 crores will be handled by FaMe TN and the
Commissionerate of Industries and Commerce. The incentives for the MSME
sector may be sanctioned by the Commissioner of Industries and

52|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Commerce. The single window facilitation for the MSME sector may be
undertaken by the Commissioner of Industries and Commerce and District

Industries Centre

The existing institutional mechanism for sanction and disbursal of
investment-related incentives to industries and other implementation
guidelines (as per TNIP 2021 or TN MSME Policy 2021) could be made

applicable to the industries eligible under this policy.

The Inter-Departmental Committee (IDC) constituted under the
Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021 shall serve as a recommendatory body
to the Cabinet for sanction of incentives for special circumstances upon the
request of the Additional Chief Secretary, Industries Department. A
representative of TIDCO would be part of this committee for all A & D

proposals

State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited (SIPCOT)
is mandated to act as the disbursal agency of various incentives listed out
in this Policy for all project categories barring MSME. For MSME, Industries
Commissioner and Director of Industries and Commerce (ICDIC),
Government of Tamil Nadu would act as the disbursal agency. SIPCOT and
ICDIC would create SOP for the disbursal mechanism in collaboration with
TIDCO for A&D industries.

53|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

vi.

vii.

Additional Notes

New manufacturing facilities set up by an existing company within the
existing facility (or) in a new site (or) in an adjacent vacant site for
manufacturing a product already being manufactured in the existing unit
or an entirely new product, would be treated as an expansion unit for
the purpose of incentives under the policy, subject to maintaining of
production volume/value in the older unit.

The definition of Aerospace & Defence Industrial Units under this policy
are defined in Annexure-II.

The categorisation of districts of the State for applicability of various
incentives laid down in this policy is defined in Annexure -III.

Eligible Fixed Asset (EFA) is as per the TN Industrial Policy.

The definition for Direct Employment or Direct Job is as per the TN
Industrial Policy.

In case, any subsidy/incentive offered for any MSME unit under the Tamil
Nadu Micro, Small, Medium Industries Policy of MSME department is
higher than the subsidy/incentive offered to Aerospace/ Defence MSME
unit under this Policy, the higher subsidy/incentive as applicable to
MSME unit will prevail.

The provisions of the current ‘Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy’ will be

applicable in cases which are not explicitly mentioned in this Policy.

54|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Annexure I - Abbreviations

S.No. Abbreviation Expansion
1. A&D Aerospace & Defence
2. |AGMARK Agricultural Marketing
3. |ASP Activated Sludge Process
4. ATEA American Tamil Entrepreneurs Association
5. |AVADI Armoured Vehicle & Ammunitions Depot of India
6. BEE Bureau of Energy Efficiency
7. |BIS Bureau of Indian Standards
8. CVRDE Combat Vehicles Research & Development
Establishment
9. DA Development Agency
10. DAP Defence Acquisition Procedure
11. DOFA Defence Offset Facilitation Agency
12. DPSU Defence Public Sector Units
13. DRDO Defence Research & Development Organisation
14. DSIR Department of Scientific and Industrial Research
15. EFA Engine Factory Avadi
16. EFA Eligible Fixed Assets
17. ELCOT Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited

Facilitating MSMEs of Tami Nadu (Erstwhile

tt gue Te MSME Trade and Investment Promotion Bureau)

19, FCS Fixed Capital Subsidy

55|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

S.No. Abbreviation Expansion

20. FDI Foreign Direct Investment

21. FPO Fruit products order

22. FSI Floor Space Index

23. GDP Gross Domestic Product

24. GRIHA Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment

25. HAPP Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project

26. HVF Heavy Vehicles Factory

27. ICDIC Industries Commissioner and Director of
Industries and Commerce

28. IDC Inter-Departmental Committee

29. iDEX Innovations for Defence Excellence

30. IGBC Indian Green Building Council

31. IIM Indian Institute of Management

32. IIoT Industrial Internet of Things

33. IIT Indian Institute of Technology

34. INR Indian Rupee

35. IoT Internet of Things

36. IPRC ISRO Propulsion Complex

37. ISI Indian Standards Institution

38. ISO International Organization for Standardization

39. ISRO Indian Space Research Organisation

40. IT Information Technology

56|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

S.No. Abbreviation Expansion
41. ITI Industrial Training Institute
42. JV Joint Venture
43. MBR Membrane Bioreactors
44. MIT Madras Institute of Technology
45. MRO Maintenance, Repair and Overhauling
46. MSME Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises
47. NIC National Industrial Classification
48. NIT National Institute of Technology
49. OCF Ordnance Clothing Factory
50. OEMs Original Equipment Manufacturers
51. OFT Ordnance Factory Trichy
52. PCD Pollution Control Devices
53. PPP Public-Private Partnership
54. PSU Public Sector Units
55. R&D Research & Development
56, RO Reverse Osmosis
57. SGST State Goods & Services Tax
58. SIDCO Small Industries Development Corporations
59. SIPCOT State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil
Nadu
60. SIPEC ot oe Project Empowered

57|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Abbreviation Expansion

Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution

SL TANGEDIE® Corporation Limited

62. TBS Turn-over Based Subsidy
63. TDP Technology Development Programmes
64. TIDCO Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation

Limited

65. Tc Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation

Limited

66. TN Tamil Nadu

67. TNDIC Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor

68. TNIFMC Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management
Corporation Limited

69, VIT Vellore Institute of Technology

58|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Annexure II - Definition of A & D units

I.

II.

III.

IV.

For the purpose of availing the benefits under this Policy, the eligible

Aerospace & Defence Industrial units are defined as those that comply

with any one of the following:

a.

Designing, engineering, manufacturing, servicing, supplying such
material/components/sub-assemblies/test equipment/software,
etc. to the OEMs / Tier I /Tier II /Tier III companies of Aviation,
Space and Defence Industrial majors including HAL, ISRO, all
Defence PSUs of Gol, all defence & security forces viz., Army,
Navy, Air force, Coast Guard, NSIL/In SPACE, airports etc.
(pertaining to A&D).

Construction of MRO Aircraft Hangers will also be considered as
Aerospace/Defence Industry.

Designing, engineering, manufacturing, servicing, supplying such
material / components / sub-assemblies / test equipment etc. to
airport operators, air traffic management units, MROs, aviation,

space or defence equipment lessors.

. Other services that are included in the various DPP, DAP as eligible

for discharge of offset obligations.

. All the industrial units which have got the AS9100 certification or

adhering to the standards laid down by various sub-committees of
Dept of Defence Productions are considered as Aerospace/Defence

related industrial/service units.

Any additional clarification on the definition of aerospace /defence

industries unit shall be given by Industries Deptt/TIDCO.

Aerospace and Defence Park is defined as an Industrial Park promoted

by Private/Govt/PPP proponents with land developed with all related

infrastructure with a minimum area of 50 acres and where at least 50%

of the units located is Aerospace & Defence related.
MSME Units: Government of Tamil Nadu will follow the MSME definition

laid out by Government of India for MSMEs as per Micro, Small and

59|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

Medium Enterprises (MSME) Act 2006. The definition for MSMEs will be
revised as per the guidelines issued by Government of India.

OEM - Original Equipment Manufacturer of aircraft, ships, battle tanks,
ammunitions, missiles, small arms, satellites, rockets, launch vehicles,
artillery guns, armoured trucks & special vehicles used by defence
forces, radars, any other equipment used for aviation, space & defence
applications responsible for overall designing & manufacturing.

Tier 1 Suppliers- Supply directly to OEMs as per specifications provided
by OEMs for at least 3 out of 5 years of operation or have a contract to
supply for the next 1 year.

Tier 2 Suppliers - Supply directly to Tier 1 and OEM’s suppliers’
specifications for at least 3 out of 5 years of operation or have a contract
to supply for the next 1 year.

Tier 3 Suppliers-Providing basic components required by other vendors
present higher in the value chain

Defence Public Sector Units - Central PSUs under the administrative

control of Ministry of Defence.

60|Page
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Annexure III - Defence Industrial Corridor Nodes

Ministry of Defence has identified Defence Industrial Corridor in Tamil Nadu
with Five nodes, namely Chennai, Coimbatore, Hosur, Salem and
Tiruchirappalli have been identified for TN Defence Industrial Corridor. The
nodes have been selected based on high potential for creation of end-to-
end ecosystem for Aerospace and Defence sector development covering

design, engineering, and manufacturing.

GoTN intends to promote these nodes as clusters with necessary testing
and certification facilities, export facilitation centres, technology transfer
facilitation, etc.

The geographical spread of the nodes of the Defence Industrial Corridors

are as tabulated below

1 Chennai 2 Kanchipuram 3 Tiruvallur
Chengalpattu 5 Ranipet 6 Vellore

7 Tirupattur 8 Krishnagiri 9 Dharmapuri

10 | Salem 11 Erode 12 Tiruppur

13 | Coimbatore 14 Namakkal 15 Tiruchirappalli

16 | Ariyalur 17 Perambalur 18 Kallakurichi

19 | Villupuram 20 Tiruvannamalai | 21 Karur

The Government of Tamil Nadu may subsequently issue a notification on
the districts which form part of each node when there are changes in the

above tabulation.

2K KOK OK OK

61|Page
Industries, Investment Promotion and
Commerce Department

www.tndefencecorridor.in
www.tidco.com

