AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY 2014




   TAMIL NADU
 AUTOMOBILE AND
AUTO COMPONENTS
     POLICY
      2014




                      Industries Department
                    Government of Tamil Nadu

                                               1
    INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




2
AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY 2014




                          CONTENTS
                                                   Page No.

1. AN OVERVIEW OF AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY IN INDIA           5


2. AUTO COMPONENTS INDUSTRY                              6


3. AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS INDUSTRY IN TAMIL NADU 6


4. AUTO INDUSTRY IN TAMIL NADU – STRENGTHS AND

   OPPORTUNITIES                                         7


5. NEED FOR AN AUTOMOBILE AND

   AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY                                9


6. OBJECTIVES OF THE POLICY                              9


7. IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES                            10


8. INFRASTRUCTURE                                       12


   8.2 Promotion of Auto Parks                          12


   8.3 Power                                            12


   8.4 Railways                                         13



                                                              3
                             INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




    8.5 Ports                                                            13


    8.6 Roads                                                             14


    8.7 Testing Facilities                                                14


    8.8 Waste Management                                                 15


    8.9 Common Facilities                                                15


    8.10 Skill Development / Enhancement & Training                      15


    8.11 Institutional Arrangements                                      15


    8.12   Labour                                                         17


    8.13 Fiscal incentives                                                17


    8.14 Other measures                                                  18




4
AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY 2014



1. AN OVERVIEW OF AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY IN INDIA


            1.1 The Indian Automotive Industry has been growing at an appreciable
pace with expanding domestic and export markets during the last decade. The
industry has now attained a turnover of Rs.1,65,000 crore (34 billion USD) and an
investment of Rs.50,000 crore. An investment of Rs.35,000 crore is in the pipeline.
The industry is providing direct and indirect employment to 1.31 crore people. It
is also making a contribution of 17% to the indirect taxes¹.

            1.2 The Indian automotive industry has the potential to emerge as one of
the largest in the world. The country already ranks number two globally in the
two-wheeler segment, next only to China. It ranks 11th in car production and 13th
in commercial vehicle production. With the growing industrial production and
increasing spending power of the Indian middle-class households, the country is
expected to make it to the top five markets in cars and commercial vehicles by 2020
². Unlike other developed markets, the Indian market is far from saturation. Also,
the number of India’s Heavy Trucks per capita is far below the levels of Developed
countries, China and the World Average.

            1.3 The growth of the economy over the past few years has attracted global
auto majors to the Indian market. Moreover, India provides trained manpower
at competitive costs making India a favoured global manufacturing hub. The
attractiveness of the Indian markets on the one hand and the stagnation of the
auto sector in markets such as Europe, US and Japan on the other, has resulted in
shifting of capacities and flow of capital to the Indian automobile industry.

___________________________________________
1
    Source : Automotive Mission Plan of Government of India.
2
    Source: India Brand Equity Foundation.




                                                                                     5
                                               INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


2. AUTO COMPONENTS INDUSTRY

            2.1 The global auto component industry is estimated to be US $ 1.2 trillion in
value and is likely to increase to US $ 1.7 trillion by 2015. Sourcing from countries
like India is likely to increase from US $ 65 billion in 2002 to US $ 375 billion by
2015 ¹.

            2.2 India is set to emerge as the destination of choice in the world for design
and manufacture of automobile and auto components with its annual output
reaching a level of US$ 145 billion, accounting for more than 10 per cent of the
GDP and providing additional employment to 25 million people by 2016. The
turn-over of the Indian auto component industry is likely to touch US$ 40 billion
by 2015-16 ².



3.       AUTOMOBILE                     AND          AUTO     COMPONENTS      INDUSTRY      IN
          TAMIL NADU

            3.1 Traditionally, Tamil Nadu is known for automobile manufacturing. Since
1953, when Simpsons pioneered India’s automobile industry in Chennai with the
manufacture of motor cars, diesel engines and steam passenger buses, the industry
has grown steadily. A number of automobile and auto components manufacturing
plants have been established since then earning Chennai the sobriquet the “Detroit
of India”. During the 1990s and early 2000s, Tamil Nadu witnessed the second
wave of the “automobile boom”. Currently, there are 6 car manufacturers located
around Chennai including Ford, Hyundai, Renault, Nissan, Mitsubishi and
BMW. The total capacity of these 6 car projects is 13.80 lakhs units per year.

___________________________________________
1
    Source : Working Report of Planning Commission.
2
    Source: Automotive Mission Plan of Government of India.
3
    Source : Federation of Indian Export Organisations.



6
AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY 2014

Apart from this, two more commercial vehicles manufacturing plants are under
construction with a total capacity of 3.71 lakhs per annum. During 2007-09,
India’s total export of automobile was Rs.8861.33 crore, of which, Chennai alone
exported Rs.4,733 crore (53.41%)¹. Chennai is now emerging as one of the Top 10
Global Automobile Manufacturing Centers.

        3.2 Tamil Nadu has the largest auto components industry base and accounts
for 35% of India’s auto components production (US$ 6.2 billion). The industry,
over the years, developed the capability of manufacturing all the components
required for manufacturing vehicles, which is evident from the high levels of
indigenization achieved in the vehicle industry as well as the components developed
for the completely Indian made vehicles. Three Chennai based industrial groups
make more than 22% of India’s auto components production. With an existing
tyre manufacturing facility and commissioning of production by 3 larger tyre
manufacturing projects, Tamil Nadu, and Chennai in particular, has become one
of the largest hubs in the world for tyre manufacturing.



4.      AUTO INDUSTRY IN TAMIL NADU – STRENGTHS AND
         OPPORTUNITIES


4.1 Strengths:

• Excellent Port Logistics: Three modern ports in Chennai and one in Tuticorin
     provide an easy gateway for exports and imports.       The Chennai container
     terminal is the most efficient in India. The Chennai and Ennore Ports have
     dedicated berths for automobile exports.

• Abundant availability of skilled manpower at various levels, namely, shop floor
     operators, technicians and diploma-holders and Graduate Engineers. The State
     despite the presence of a large manufacturing sector, enjoys enviable industrial
     peace and cooperation.


                                                                                    7
                                INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

• Mature auto components base – Chennai has over 350 Tier I to III suppliers
    apart from more than 4000 SMEs under Tier IV segment. All mother vehicle
    projects also have dedicated Vendors Parks next to them.

• Reliable Infrastructure – Tamil Nadu offers high quality infrastructure in terms
    of power, roads, communication, water availability, waste disposal, etc.

• Testing and Certification facility: NATRiP, a Govt of India project established
    in Oragadam near Chennai with a test track will be facilitating introduction
    of world-class automotive safety, emission and performance standards in India
    and also ensure seamless integration of Indian automotive components industry
    with the global industry.

• Chennai emerging as Design centre: A “Research Valley” in Maraimalai Nagar
    near Chennai has undertaken design, prototype development and testing of
    new vehicle models. This centre is Asia’s largest facility with a built-up area of
    8,00,000 sq.feet.

• Excellent Government support: State Government offers attractive support
    packages to attract mother plant which now cover all the automobile majors
    including Ford, Hyundai, Renault, Nissan, Daimler, BMW, Ashok Leyland, the
    TVS Group and every major auto components maker.

• Cost effective manufacturing base: Several studies have shown that Tamil
    Nadu is one of the most cost-competitive States in India.

1.2 Opportunities:

    • Chennai offers potential to double the automobile production within the
       next 3 years and the potential to emerge as one of the Top 10 Auto clusters
       in the World.

8
AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY 2014

   • Automobile industry offers a high Multiplier effect on the rest of the economy.
       If the mother plant directly employs one worker, the vendors and support
       industries employ about 8 workers. Again, if the mother project invests $
       1, the vendors invest about 3 times. In view of this high multiplier effect,
       automobile industry can help create large gainful employment opportunities
       for the large pool of educated youth in the State.

5. NEED FOR AN AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY


       5.1 Presently, a package of incentives is available only for ultra mega auto
projects. Even though automobile and components constitute an important segment
in our economy, Tamil Nadu does not have a separate integrated and comprehensive
policy to retain the State’s leadership position, to enhance its competitive edge and
to address the critical issues faced by this industry.


6. OBJECTIVES OF THE POLICY

   • Focus on further development and consolidation of automobile and
       components industry where Tamil Nadu enjoys a comparative advantage and
       to strengthen this industry as a key driver of economic growth.
   • Promote competitiveness and cutting costs for the industry.
   • Promote new auto clusters and attract mega automobile projects with
       economic spin off potential, particularly in the Southern districts.
   • Facilitate backward and forward linkages to maximise value-addition in the
       State and to encourage Small and Medium Enterprise vendors.
   • Address the specific infrastructure gaps and deficiencies that affect the
       automobile and components industry.
   • Augment the talent pool to meet the long term skilled manpower requirements
       of this industry and to encourage Public-Private-Partnership initiatives and
       Industry-Institution partnerships in skill development

                                                                                    9
                                 INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

     • Ensure harmonious industrial relations

     • Generate additional employment potential for about 5 lakh persons by 2015
         in automobile and components industry.

     • Double export of Automobile and components from Tamil Nadu by 2016.

     • Make Tamil Nadu numero uno in Asia in the automobile and components
         industry; and

     • Make Chennai one of the top five centres in the world in the automobile and
         components industry.


7. IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES

         7.1 The State Government will adopt the theme, ‘‘Tamil Nadu, the Partner
in Automotive Sector Investment’’, as a long term strategy to widen and deepen the
automotive industry with the aim of doubling the production volumes every five
years to reach 5 million vehicles per annum by 2020. Towards this end, the State
Government will

     •     Form an Automotive Industrial Development Centre (AIDC) offering
           investment facilitation services to companies wishing to invest in the
           automotive industry in Tamil Nadu.

           The AIDC will;

         (i)    support and facilitate the Government to deliver appropriate policy
                framework, policy implementation, policy interventions and policy
                mid-course corrections that are aimed at making Tamil Nadu an
                attractive destination for the manufacture and export of motor vehicles,

         (ii)   assist new investors in the decision making process, and



10
AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY 2014

         (iii)     facilitate supply chain development, suppliers development and skills
                   development and training;

   •         establish an Automotive Suppliers Park (ASP) to improve the logistics
             competitiveness for the units set up there. The ASP will offer space, area
             development, shared business services and optimized logistics services; and

   •         set up an Auto City, a state-of-the-art industrial park as a joint venture,
             spread over 1000 hectares catering to domestic and global automotive /
             component design, prototyping, manufacturing and remanufacturing units
             for

                   - Cars, Buses, Trucks and derivatives
                   - Earthmoving equipment
                   - Machined auto components, Castings and Forgings and
                   - Cold-rolled Close Annealed (CRCA) rolling and servicing.

         7.2 The Auto City will serve automotive /Component companies catering to
the export markets. It will have

       (i)    A Logistics Hub to provide with multimodal transport including
              appropriate equipment for safe and efficient handling

       (ii) Design & Technology Park where common facilities will be created for
              use by all auto / component units

       (iii) Common infrastructure such as Drainage / Effluent Treatment / Solid
              Waste management & utilities including Power, Gas and Water.

       (iv) Shared capabilities to meet staffing and training requirements, prototyping
              requirements, testing facilities, scrap management facilities, effluent &
              hazardous waste management facilities etc. and


                                                                                      11
                               INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


     (v) Shared infrastructure facilities for metal forming, surface treatment, die
          handling and maintenance etc.

8. INFRASTRUCTURE

       8.1 Availability of land with close proximity to road and rail network is the
need of the hour for the industry. The Government of Tamil Nadu will provide a
speedy, facilitative role in providing space for the industries.

8.2 Promotion of Auto Parks:
       In addition to the Auto City, new auto clusters will be promoted in
Tiruchirappalli, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi. Existing clusters in Madurai and
Coimbatore will be strengthened. SIPCOT will promote Auto Industrial Parks in
Coimbatore, Tiruchirappalli, Thoothukudi, etc. and extend all infrastructure and
other common facilities to attract more investment from small and medium auto
component industries.

8.3 Power:
       8.3.1    Auto component industry is a quality power intensive and power
sensitive industry. With the industry becoming hi-tech, more and more precision
engineering technologies and machineries are being used to produce world-class
products, not only for the Indian operations but for global operations as well. This
requires availability of reliable and quality power.

      8.3.2    Additional generating capacity to the tune of 6,200 MW by the end
of twelfth plan period will be created through joint ventures and State owned power
projects to meet the growing demand.

      8.3.3 If the power requirement is in excess of 25 MVA, then TNEB will
provide a substation (230 KV SS / 110 KV SS depending on the power requirement)
at its cost and the land for the substation will have to be provided by the Developer
Agency free of cost.

12
AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY 2014

      8.3.4        The HT consumers will be facilitated to procure required power
within their sanctioned demand from generators within Tamil Nadu and other
States and also from Power Exchanges on payment of necessary open access charges.

8.4 Railways:

      8.4.1 Railways will be requested to provide fast trains with limited stops
to Maraimalai Nagar Industrial Area. Similarly, steps will be taken to ensure that
other industrial areas like Sriperumbudur, Oragadam, Pillaipakkam and Ambattur
are well connected with similar facilities.

      8.4.2 The State Government and the Southern Railways have already
initiated the process for establishment of broad-gauge rail link between Avadi and
Guduvancherry with a spur line (1.5 Km) from Sriperumbudur to Irungattukkottai

      8.4.3 Ministry of Railways will be persuaded –

      -   to provide a rail link for Pillaipakkam;

      -   to provide Sub-way for pedestrian crossing at congested locations especially
          near Industrial parks.

      -   to increase frequency of trains closer to the shift hours in the industrial
          belts.

8.5 Ports:

      8.5.1 Tamil Nadu has the advantage of being on the Eastern Coast. One of
the largest exporters of cars is based in Tamil Nadu and with more manufacturers
looking at India as a hub for small car for domestic as well as for exports, port
infrastructure will need to be strengthened and aligned to world standards for
clearance of goods at a faster pace. With Free Trade Agreements being signed with
ASEAN Countries in particular, there is certainty of increase in automotive trade
between these countries and India.


                                                                                    13
                              INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

        8.5.2    Govt. of India / Ministry of Shipping will be impressed upon the
need to construct multi level parking in the major ports of the State.

        8.5.3 Chennai port / Ennore Port/Thoothukudi Port will be requested to –

     • Ensure no restrictions for 24 hours movement of Export / Import
        Consignment Trucks / Lorries / Container Trailers.

     • Establish Dedicated Car Export Terminal with Ro-Ro facilities
     • Deepen the ports to a minimum of 14 metres to enable larger car carriers
     • Provide faster Customs clearance and electronic documentation

8.6 Roads:

        8.6.1.   The Government has taken the initiative to augment the road
capacity in tune with the growing needs of development. The Comprehensive
Road Infrastructure Development Programme (CRIDP) is a flagship scheme
wherein Government of Tamil Nadu has sanctioned Rs.14,872 Crore for widening
and improvements in 50610 km roads and 2020 number of culverts, bridges and
protective works to develop the road infrastructure facilities. As of March 2013,
95% of State Highways in Tamil Nadu are multi-lane whereas in other States this is
not even 50%.

        8.6.2 The Government in collaboration with NHAI and the Government of
India will improve the connectivity to Chennai and Ennore Ports. The Government
will build a Chennai Peripheral Ring Road with 8-lanes and 2 service lanes on both
sides covering a length of 162 km which will connect Mamallapuram to Ennore
Port with links to NH 45, NH 4, NH 205 and NH 5. The construction cost of the
Ring Road is assessed as Rs.6500 Crore. Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA) has expressed its willingness to fund the project. Construction of this road
will enhance connectivity between various ports and serve the industrial hinterland
adjoining the Chennai City.


14
AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY 2014

8.7 Testing Facilities:

      One of the major costs for the industry in terms of compliance to global
standards is the various types of testing for components and the vehicles. In this
regard, the National Automotive Testing and R&D Infrastructure Project (NATRiP)
has been established in Oragadam near Chennai by Ministry of Heavy Industries
& Public Enterprises, Government of India at a cost of Rs. 470 crore. This would
help in reducing the costs and lead-time for testing.

8.8 Waste Management:

      8.8.1 Efforts will be taken to identify and earmark land for hazardous waste
disposal at subsidized rates.

      8.8.2 Infrastructure in proposed as well as existing Industrial Parks / Estates
will include provision for a solid waste disposal yard, waste water treatment plant,
common effluent treatment plants, etc.

8.9 Common Facilities:

      8.9.1 SIPCOT will provide land and facilitate the creation of common facility
centres in each Industrial Park for testing, metrological centre, tool room, training
facilities for workers, dormitory facilities for workers, housing near the place of work
for employees, education facility for workers children, medical facilities, vehicle
parking locations/terminals, and public transport facilities.

      8.9.2 The Tamil Nadu Housing Board, the Education Department and
the Transport Department will also on their part provide housing, education and
transport facilities respectively near the SIPCOT Industrial Parks.

8.10 Skill Development / Enhancement & Training:

      Every year, more than one lakh technically qualified persons at all levels from
ITI trained to Engineering Graduates come out of the professional institutions


                                                                                      15
                               INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

in the State. The Tamil Nadu Skill Development Mission initially implemented
through a society has been reorganized as a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) with
participation from private sectors under the Companies Act, 1956 as Tamil Nadu
Skill Development Corporation in the year 2013 will facilitate the matching of the
technical skills of these youth with the needs of the industries.

8.11 Institutional Arrangements:

      8.11.1 Students will be taught the technical skills required to work in the field,
regarding the trends in the industry and also the certification and other statutory
requirements. Besides, Auto Engineering (including repairs and services), areas like
automobile sales, vehicle inspection services, auto finance and auto insurance will
be introduced in the Curriculum for the vocational studies. This would produce
industry-ready labour, thus increasing the productivity of the state, which in turn
would be a huge incentive for new industries to look at investing in Tamil Nadu.

      8.11.2    Technical Institutes and polytechnics will be encouraged to align
themselves with the industry needs and consult industry wherever needed for inputs
and planning. An Industry-Institution Interaction Cell (III Cell) will be formed in
each Polytechnic College.

      8.11.3 An Auto Industry Training Institute on PPP mode will be promoted
to produce skilled labour employable by the auto industry. Imparting basic industry
practice, sensitizating basic skills and e-learning will be part of the curriculum.

      8.11.4 ‘Training Incentives’ award will be introduced for Automobile
Manufacturers and Auto Component Manufacturers.

      8.11.5 ITIs/polytechnics in industrial areas will be identified in association
with industry for automotive industry training.         Recruitment of experienced
and knowledgeable faculty from Industry who have hands on experience will be
facilitated. The curriculum, the training course and format will be revisited with
the industry experts.

16
AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY 2014

       8.11.6 The Industry will be asked to extend support by way of providing a
Guest Lecturer for the ITI’s and Polytechnics once or twice a week.

       8.11.7 Shop-floor training during the training period will be partnered with
industry. Links will be established with automotive industry to help employ the
trainees.

       8.11.8 Companies employing students from schools/colleges and providing
special training etc., will be incentivised to enable more training and employment
generation. This would also reduce the burden on the infrastructure of ITI’s.

       8.11.9 As part of industrial exposure to the polytechnic students, industry
visits will be made mandatory.

       8.11.10 ITIs/Polytechnics will be encouraged to become E-enabled and
conduct e-learning courses.

8.12   Labour:

       8.12.1    Automotive, and component sector in particular, is labour-intensive
and has huge potential for employment generation.

       8.12.2 Subject to applicable laws and as far as possible, the Government will
consider giving permission to the automobile and auto components industry for
24x7 (three shifts) operations, employment of women in the night shifts, flexibility
in employment conditions including working hours for women and shorter or
longer shift timings and hiring of contract workers.

       8.12.3    The automobile industry will be declared to be a ‘Public Utility’
under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 in order to prevent flash strikes.

8.13 Fiscal incentives:

       8.13.1 The incentives in the New Industrial Policy 2014 will be applicable to
Automobile and Auto Components Industry as well.



                                                                                  17
                                INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

        8.13.2 Apart from this, in order to encourage setting up of Integrated Ultra
Mega Automobile Projects, either new or expansion, Ultra Mega and Super Mega
Auto & Auto Component Projects will be offered a rebate in cost of land procured
from SIPCOT at 10% and 5% respectively.

        8.13.3   Automobile Hubs & Clusters will be incentivized by providing 50%
stamp duty concession and additional capital subsidy of 5%.

8.14 Other measures:

     • An “Automobile and Auto Components Industry Consultative Committee”
        under the Hon’ble Minister for Industries including leading industrialists,
        organisations like ACMA, SIAM, CII, etc., will be constituted and the
        committee will meet periodically to discuss the major issues confronting the
        industry and advise Government on remedial measures needed.

     • Private-Public-Partnership (PPP) will be encouraged to implement
        infrastructure projects with the active participation of the automobile
        industry.

     • Federal issues like upgradation of port facilities, National Highway roads,
        taxation, anti-dumping, etc. will be facilitated.



                                          ******




18
AUTOMOBILE AND AUTO COMPONENTS POLICY 2014




                                             19
                          INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




                 INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT
                       (Government of Tamil Nadu)
                Secretariat, Fort St. George, Chennai - 600 009.
 Tel : +91-044-25671383 Fax : +91-044-25670822 E-mail : indsec@tn.gov.in

20
