BIOTECH NOLOGY POLICY 2014
                                                 •••




                               4LONE~




        TAMILNADU
      BIOTECHNOLOGY
          POLICY
                             2014




                      Indust ries D epartm ent
                    Gover nment of Tamil Nadu

•••
BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014                           1111 ■ ■ ■




                            CONTENTS

                                                  Page No.


1.   INTRODUCTION                                          5


2.   OBJECTIVES OF THE NEW BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY            6

3.   THE NATURE OF BIOTECHNOLOGY                           6

4.   APPLICATIONS OF BIOTECHNOLOGY                         7

5.   BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY IN INDIA AND

     TAMIL NADU AT A GLANCE                                7

6.   TAMIL NADU - THE POTENTIAL FOR BIOTECH INDUSTRIES     8

7.   MAJOR OPPORTUNITIES AND THE THRUST AREAS

     OF THE BIOTECHNOLOGY SECTOR IN TAMIL NADU             9

8.   THE STATE'S INTERVENTIONS                           11


9~   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT                            12

10. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT                           14

11. INFRASTRUCTURE FOR MANUFACTURING                     16

12. BIOTECHNOLOGY VENTURE CAPITAL                        18



••••                                                        3
•••                     INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




13. POWER                                                            18

14. THE ANNUAL BIOTECHNOLOGY CONVENTION                              19

15. FISCAL INCENTIVES                                                19

16. SINGLE WINDOW FACILITATION                                       20

17.   NANOTECHNOLOGY                                                 20




4                                                                  •••
BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014                                                        ■■■




1.     INTRODUCTION

        1.1. Biotechnology and Information Technology, have been frequently referred
to as the technologies of 21 st century. Tamil Nadu was one of the few States which
saw its potential early and formulated a separate Biotechnology Policy a decade ago.
The State established its first biotechnology incubation park, the TIDCO Centre for
Life Sciences (TICEL) Biotechnology Park I in Chennai with technical collaboration
from Cornell University, USA which became operational in November, 2004 and
remains fully occupied to-day; the state-of-the art TICEL II with a built-up area of 6
lakh square feet, with Bio-safety Levels 2 & 3 (BSL 2/ BSL 3), is set for completion
very shortly. A Biotechnology Core Instrumentation Facility is being established at
TICEL II, with the state-of-the-art equipment for microbiology, molecular biology,
fermentation, downstream processing, purification and analytical & animal cell
culture facilities.

        1.2. The Vision 2023 Tamil Nadu unveiled by Honourable Chief Minister
in March 2012 mentions Biotechnology sector as one of the Sunrise sectors and
emphasises the need to create networks of scientific and research institutions
focusing on areas such as biotechnology, high yielding varieties, tissue culture,
etc.   The Vision 2023 document further envisages the development of eleven
important and special signature projects that will create a huge positive impact and
provide significant spin-off benefits, one of which is the development of world class
institutions of research and knowledge in the Biotechnology sector. Efforts are on
to get a National Biotechnology Centre of Excellence established in Chennai. The
Golden Jubilee Biotech Park, exclusively for women, is another pioneering effort of
the State Government.

        1.3 Though the growth of the biotechnology sector in Tamil Nadu has been
quite impressive, it can be even better, especially given the abundant opportunities
available and the favourable factors Tamil Nadu is endowed with. Hence, this
revised Policy: to take a re-look at the journey undertaken so far, and to chart the
future course of action to re-invigorate the sector.

••••                                                                                 5
•••                               INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


2. OBJECTIVES OF THE NEW BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY

         The new Policy is designed to facilitate new biotech companies to come to
Tamil Nadu by creating an enabling environment. The broad objectives of the new
Biotech policy are:

     •    to take up a detailed inventory of the bio-resources in the State;

     •    to attract R&D institutions and Manufacturing firms to Tamil Nadu by:
             o developing high quality infrastructure with the required support
                services for manufacturing units by setting up specialized Biotech
                Parks in various parts of the State;
             o providing special incentives to the biotech industry and related sectors;
             o developing competent human resources at different levels in the field
                of biotechnology;
             o facilitating the flow of venture capital funds and bank credit to biotech
                 companies;
             o addressing issues such as Intellectual Property Rights, Bio-safety, Bio-
                 surveillance and Bio-ethics;
             o encourage and facilitate introduction of biotechnology at the grass-
                 root level to strengthen the economy of the State;
             o promote the field of Bio-informatics leveraging the State's strength in
                 Information Technology;
             o promote human resources m Biotechnology by introducing new
                 courses and encourage private sector to establish institutions and
             o promote infrastructure for this by creation of a Biotechnology Zone
                 with TIDCO as the nodal agency.

3.       THE NATURE OF BIOTECHNOLOGY

       Biotechnology is characterised by a number of unique conditions. First, it
is a cross-cutting technology. A technique developed for and applied in human
health can be used in agriculture and vice versa. Therefore, substantial benefit
can be derived from this 'cross-fertiFsation' feature of biotechnology. Secondly,
the biotechnology industry is research-intensive. Thirdly, the development and


6                                                                                ••••
BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014                                                          •••
application of biotechnology requires a convergence of skills from a variety of
disciplines: biochemistry, genetics, information technology, engineering and several
other specialisations. It is thus a multi-disciplinary field. Hence, the industrial
application of biotechnology requires the acquisition of strong scientific and
engineering capabilities, and the deployment of new knowledge in production
processes.

4. APPLICATIONS OF BIOTECHNOLOGY

        Biotechnology has applications in four major areas: (i) health care (medical),
(ii) crop production and agriculture, (iii) non food (industrial) uses of crops and
other products (e.g., bio-degradable plastics, vegetable oil, bio-fuels, textiles, paper)
and (iv) environmental uses.

5. BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY IN INDIA AND TAMIL NADU AT A
   GLANCE

       5.1 Biotechnology industry in India has been registering phenomenal growth
in the recent past. India is ranked among the top 12 biotechnology destinations in
the world and the Indian biotechnology sector is the second largest in Asia after
China. The latest Biospectrum- ABLE 1 Biotechnology Industry Survey 2013 estimates
that during the fiscal year 2012-13, the Indian biotechnology sector grew at 15.l %
to register a turn-over of Rs.23,524 crore; in 2007-08, the turn-over was Rs.10,272
crore. Tamil Nadu is projected to achieve a revenue of Rs. 5,000 crore (approx. US$
1 billion) by 2016. Thus, biotechnology offers an enormous opportunity with a
vast potential for growth. The shares of the various segments of the Biotechnology
industry in India during 2012-13 were as follows 2:

 Biopharma: Vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics                            63.43%
 Bioservices: clinical trial, contract research and manufacturing             18.40%
 Bioagri: Hybrid seeds and transgenic crops, Bio pesticides and               13 .64%
 Biofertilizers
 Bioindustrials: enzymes used in detergents, textiles, food, leather,         3.28%
 paper and pharmaceuticals
 Bioinformatics: creation and maintenance of extensive electronic              1.25%
 databases on various biological systems

1,2 Association of Biotechnology Led Enterprises, June 2013.



•••                                                                                     7
                                                INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
    ••••
            5.2. The Indian biotec hnology industry is set to grow to Rs.49,747 crore by
                                                                                    It is the
    2015 3 . India has a sizable presence in the global pharmaceutical market.
                                                                                      t global
    fo urth-la rgest global produc er, by volume, of drugs, and it is also the bigges
                                                                                       ation 's
    supplier of traditio nal vaccines. In 2005, under the World Trade O rganiz
                                                                                     India's
    Trade-Related Aspects of Intelle ctual Property Righ ts (TRIPs) agreem ent,
                                                                                          ed
    patent laws were brought in line with intern ationa l trading rules. TRIPs has provid
                                                                                   world
    the impetu s for India's innovation to get a jump start and showcase to the
                                                                                 hnology
    its capab ilities in produ cing the n ext major drug. The agricu lture biotec
                                                                                           at the
    sector is also vibran t in India and many biotech co mpanies look seriou sly
    agricu lture sector in India and Tamil Nadu.


    6. TAMIL NAD U - THE POTENTIAL FOR BIOT ECH INDUSTRIES

          6.1 Tamil Nadu, with its abund ant intellectual and huma n resources, is fast
                                                                                      ned
    emerging as an innova tion and knowledge-d riven econo my, and is ideally positio
    to reap the benefi ts the Biotechnology sector has throw n open.

                                                                                          d
           6.2 Ph arma giants like Pfizer and C hemic al giants like Dow C hemicals, Orchi
                                                                                     Orchi d
     Chem icals and Shasu n Ch emicals all have their R& D facilities in C h ennai.
                                                                                 acturi ng
     chemicals have set up one of the World 's largest sterile anti-biotic manuf
                                                                                   henna i
     faciliti es near C henn ai with an R&D Facility. In the healthcare domai n, C
                                                                                     i has
     boasts of an impres sive array of world-class corpor ate hospitals and C henna
                                                                                    across
     emerg ed as on e of the most preferr ed destinations for medical tourists from
     the globe.

           6.3 Chenn ai is also famou s for its high-class educa tional institu tions: the
                                                                                    nown
     Indian Institu te of Technology (IIT), Anna U nivers ity and many well-k
I    Engin eering Colleges. The Madras University, the Madu rai Kamaraj Unive
                                                                                 rsity, the
                                                                                     rsities
     Bhara thidha san University, the Bhara thiyar University and many private Unive
                                                                                          of
     offer very accom plishe d Biotechnology courses. Realizing the impor tance
                                                                                        e was
     educa tion and researc h in anima l and fisheries sciences, the Veteri nary Colleg


     3 Report by the Confederation of Indian Industries and YES BANK


     8                                                                                     ••••
BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014                                                    II ■ ■ ■


established as far back as 1876, the first of its kind in India, which has blossomed
into the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, again a first in
its category. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, established in 1971, which
had its humble origin as an Agricultural School in 1868, is presently the largest
Agricultural University in India: with 36 agro technology research stations, it is a
resource centre for many such institutions in various parts of India.

         6.4 Tamil Nadu leads in other knowledge based sectors like the Information
Technology. .

7.       MAJOR OPPORTUNITIES AND THE THRUST AREAS OF THE
         BIOTECHNOLOGY SECTOR IN TAMIL NADU_


         7.1   If the threats and weaknesses facing the biotechnology sector are
addressed, the following areas of the sector are expected to offer enormous growth
opportunities:


         7.2 Vaccines and recombinant therapeutics: The next few years will witness
the launch of newer therapies, prominent among these would be the monoclonal
antibodies products, stem cell therapies, growth factors and others.


         7.3 Bioactive Therapeutic Proteins: Production of proteins and antibodies
and fabrication of diagnostic protein chips would be a promising area for investment.


         7.4 Stem cell research, cell engineering and cell-based therapeutics could
be another area where the State can excel. Up to 25% growth is expected in this
field.


         7.5 Agriculture sector: Tamil Nadu has the potential to become a major State
in adopting high technology plant breeding and seed production methodologies.
There is an increasing use of molecular markers in crop breeding and a growing
realization that some of these new technologies could lead to future growth in the
productivity and quality of crops such as rice, wheat, eggplant (brinjal), tomato and


••••                                                                                9
     ••••                            INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

     lady's finger. Therefore, hybrid seeds represen t new business opportu nities based
     on yield improve ment. The develop ment of a product ion base in bio-pest icides and
     bio-fertilisers would facilitate the State's entry into the growing organic or natural
     fo ods market.


            7.6 Animal Biotech nology: The livestock and poultry wealth in the State
     is ever on the increase , as a large number of germpla sms are being introduc ed in
     the State. The scope for develop ing diagnostics and vaccines and nutraceu ticals
     exclusively for livestock and poultry applying biotechnological tools is immense.


           7.7 Contract Research: The cutting edge of the biotechn ology sector is the

I    develop ment of new products. Indian pharmac eutical compan ies possess competi tive
     skills in chemica l synthesis and process engineering, which they can leverage to
    develop new chemical entities, and with the applicat ion of bio-info rmatics tools, tap
     into the high-potential bio-generics segment .


           7.8   Clinical Trials and outsour cing: Due to the rising costs of R&D
    abroad, many global compan ies are looking for contract research in India especially
    US and Europea n compan ies. As already mention ed, Tamil Nadu has got an
    impressive network of corpora te hospitals which is an ideal platform for clinical
    trials because of the diverse gene pools covering a large number of diseases . Cost-
    effectiveness, competi tion and the increased confiden ce on capabilities and skill
    sets have propelled many global pharmaceutical players to expand their own clinical
    research investme nt in India. C o ntract research suppo rted by IT skills has led to
    promisin g outso urcing business in various other segments including clinical trial
    data managem ent, statistical analys is, and electron ic data capture.


           7.9 Bioinformatics: This field offers significa nt opportu nities in critical areas
    such as data mining, mapping and DNA sequenc ing, besides function al genomics,
    proteom ics and molecule design simulati on. The IT skills of Tamil Nadu are a
    complem entary strength .



    10
                                                                                      • •••
BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014                                                      •••
      7.10 Besides the above, the following thrust areas offer tremendous scope for
potential investment in the Biotechnology sector:

               •    Medicinal and Aromatic plants

               •    Animal Biotechnology
               •    Aquaculture and Marine Biotechnology

               •    Seri biotechnology
               •    Human Genetics and Genome Analysis
               •    Environmental Biotechnology

               •    Microbial and Industrial Biotechnology
               •    Healthcare
               •    Bio-Fuels

               •    Software Support


8. THE STATE'S INTERVENTIONS

       The State Government's initiatives to foster biotechnology will be as follows:

INSTITUTIONAL

8.1 Creation of the Department of Biotechnology

   A separate Department of Biotechnology will be created by the State government
to foster the growth of biotechnology in Tamil Nadu.

8.2 The State Biotechnology Board

      8.2.1.       A State Biotechnology Board will be established to give proper
orientation to the biotechnology sector in the State.         The Board will have
representatives from the public, the research community, the business sector and
the Government. To support this Board, a permanent cell comprising qualified
experts will be created in the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation
(TIDCO) .


••••                                                                               11
                                                                  T OF TAMIL NADU
                                 INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMEN
•• ••
                                                            cy mea sures and infrastr ucture
       8.2.2. This Boa rd will periodically review the poli
                                                    rd will incl ude :
need s of Biot ech Indu stry. The role of the Boa

                                                             ch the stren gths of the State;
   •    identifying and defi ning the focus areas to mat
                                                               astr uctu re for research and
    •   esta blis hing and stre ngth ening wor ld class infr
        man ufacturi ng;
                                                             and
    •   esta blish ing speciality parks to boo st key areas;
                                                                 pan ies.
    •   iden tifyi ng fund ing avenues to prom ote new com

9. RESEARCH AN D DEVELOPMENT

                                                            ce (BCE)
 9.1 Creation of Biotechnology Centre of Excellen
                                                              tion of Bio tech nology Cen tre
         The State G over nme nt will supp ort the crea
                                                          vers ity, to provide research and
 of Excellen ce at Tam il Nad u Agr icul tural Uni
                                                       areas. The Biot echnology Cen tre
 tech nology facilities in biotechnology focus
                                                     inst itute in itself, with a state-of-t he-
 of Excellen ce will be a full-fled ged research
                                                           or scie ntists with their teams of
 art labo rato ry and emp loyi ng a num ber of seni
                                                       on research prod ucts lead ing to new
 professi ona l and tech nica l staf f, who will focus
                                                                         leverage the exp ertise
  prod ucts.        The Biotechn ology Cen tre of Excellen ce will
                                                         and act as com mon facility areas
  alre ady available in the acad emic inst itut ions
                                                       rtise will be shar ed by the acad emia
  whe re capi tal equ ipment and specialised expe
                                                       of Excellen ce will be resp onsible for
  and the industry. T he Biotechn ology Cen tre
                                                       ls and info rma tio n. The Cen tre will
  preservi ng and d istri buti ng biol ogical materia
                                                         on the mod els of the IIT Research
  also acco mm oda te a biotechnology incu bator,
                                                       a syste mat ic stud y of the biod iver sity
   Park in C hen nai. The Cen tre will und erta ke
                                                        com mer cial potential and develop a
   available in Tamil Nad u with resp ect to their
                                                       s.
   repo sito ry of such knowled ge and the gen ome

  9.2. BioTech Research Institutions
                                                          ernm ent of Indi a to esta blish
         T he Stat e Government wili pursue with the Gov
                                                     y & Life Scie nces at C h enna i. The
   a National Cen tre of Excellen ce for Biotechnolog

   12
                                                                                          •• ••
BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014                                                        ••••
State Government will collaborate with the Government of India to attract future
research institutions for the State from the Council of Scientific and Industrial
Research (CSIR) and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT).

9.3. Other facilities for Biotechnology Research

      The State Government will facilitate the setting up of resources such as large
animal facilities, transgenic animal facilities, advanced protein characterization
facilities, chemical and molecular screening libraries, bio-safety level 3 facilities for
infectious-disease research, and trade-related testing and accreditation facilities.

9.4. Bio-IT Park

       The State Government will promote a Bio-IT Park on the Public-Private
Partnership (PPP) mode. The Bio-IT Park will be a cluster of science and technical
academic institutions, research centres and Information Technology and Life
Sciences industries, all of which will collaborate in addressing the IT related needs
of the global biotech industry. The Governments at the Central and State levels,
Research and academic institutions and industry (IT, BT, Pharma etc.) will be the
major stakeholders of the Park and the Government will play the role of the facilitator.
The Research Institutes will play the dual role of being a common infrastructure
facility and the facilitator of research through collaborations and technical tie-ups
with the companies in the Park.

9.5. Medical Biotechnology Industrial Clusters

       The State Government will promote Medical Biotechnology Industrial
Clusters by amalgamating biotech talents from different universities, medical centres
and institutions.

9.6. Biotechnology Research Fund

        A Biotechnology Research Fund will be created with a corpus of Rs. 100
 crore to begin with, which will be used to encourage research in the thrust areas
 already identified and specifically


••••                                                                                   13
    ••••                          INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

          •   the development of easy to use, low-cost diagnostics for the detection and
              management of infectious and non-communicable diseases;

          •   the development of affordable and safe vaccines;

          •   the development of specific Tamil Nadu-developed drugs for diabetics,
              hypertension, cancer, malaria, TB, etc.;

          •   a genome project (gene profile) on Tamil Nadu population: the mapping
              and identification of genes underlying disease structure, elucidation of the
              molecular basis of diseases common to this region and the development

I             of technology to develop medicines and diagnostic tests;

I         •   the creation of a resource database that will identify all the components
              required for the commercialisation of biopharmaceuticals. This database
              could be managed and accessed through a bio-industry portal.


    10. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT


          10.1. Tamil Nadu has emerged as the second largest IT exporter primarily
    due to abundant availability of skilled manpower. On similar lines, Tamil Nadu has
    the potential to be a leader in BioTech and allied Life sciences industries.


           10.2. The State has 553 Engineering colleges with an enrolment of 1,82,000
    graduates, more than 500 polytechnics with an enrolment of 1,20,000 technicians
    and more than 1,600 Industrial Training Institutes producing about 180,000 skilled
    workers. Anna University has established a Centre for BioTechnology. A number of
    other Universities including deemed universities and Engineering colleges currently
    offer courses in Biotechnology, Bio-Informatics, Bio-medical engineering, Bioprocess
    engineering, Genetic engineering, etc. However, there is a need to augment the
    supply.




    14                                                                             • •••
BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014                                                           •••
10.3 Curriculum development

        10.3.l. The Government will facilitate starting multi-disciplinary courses
in the fields of basic molecular biology, bio-informatics, information technology,
engineering, statistics, genetic epidemiology, business management, product
development and legal issues, in academic institutions.

        10.3.2. The State will support integrated degree programmes with industry-
relevant curricula and with emphasis on application of basic understanding of the
biological system leading to Ph. D.

        10.3.3. Hands-on training m biotechnology will be imparted in schools
and colleges. Towards this end, the State Government will encourage small scale
industries to manufacture reagents and teaching kits.

        10.3.4. Industry-oriented PG diploma courses in Biotechnology subjects like
clinical trials and bio-reactor operations will be offered in the colleges.

        10.3.5. The State Government will support the development of various
fermentation processes for the production of Nutraceuticals4 and encourage large
investment projects in N utraceuticals production.

10.4 Augmentation of skilled manpower

        To augment the skilled manpower availability, the State Government will

    •   introduce diploma and certificate courses (for 10+ 2 higher secondary. CBSE,
        ISC students) in agricultural biotechnology, animal husbandry, etc.;

    •   undertake a review and amend course curricula in consultation with the
        industry and research establishments to meet industry needs;

    •   encourage industry-university tie-ups to enable professionals to undertake
        PhD programmes, through sharing of costs;

4  A "Nutraceutical" is a food o r food product that reportedly provides health and medical
benefits, including the prevention and treatment of diseases .



•••                                                                                      15
                                         INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


         •       include components of biotechnology in the life sciences syllabi at the
                 undergraduate and the postgraduate levels;

         •       encourage the private sector to establish advanced Finishing Schools m
                 BioTech and allied fields;

         •       introduce Training subsidy to encourage employment of fresh graduates by
                 the BioTech industry.

    11. INFRASTRUCTURE FOR MANUFACTURING

I   11.1 Biotechnology Enterprise Zone

I
                 The State Government, with TIDCO as the nodal agency, will establish the
    Tamil Nadu Biotechnology Enterprise Zone. The Zone will house a Core Biotech
    Park and a Marine Biotech Park. Besides the O&M services, the zone will also

I   house specialised services like:

             •    Consulting Services

             •    Regulatory facilitation

             •    Single Window Facilitation Cell and

             •    IPR Cell.


    11.2 Special Investment Zones for Biotech industry


                 The State Government will facilitate the creation of Special Investment Zones
    for Biotech manufacturing and R&D activities near Chennai.

    11.3 Biotech Parks


                 11.3.1. The State will also encourage the development of Biotech Parks which
    will provide land and plug-and-play infrastructure for biotechnology industries .


    16                                                                                 ••••
       BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014                                                   ••••
       Such Biotech Parks will be encouraged near Chennai and also in the tier-2 cities
       like Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchirapalli, Salem and Thoothukudi. More public-
       private partnerships will be encouraged to set up projects in the model of TICEL
       phase II type selfcontained buildings, that can offer shell spaces for small and
       medium enterprises.

              11.3.2. To encourage the Private sector to establish such Biotech Parks, the
       State Government will:

          •   offer 100% Stamp duty concession on built-up space offered to industries in
              such Biotech parks. Such Biotech parks should have common infrastructure
              like labs, testing Facilities, etc., to qualify for this.

          •   provide additional FSI on par with the IT industry, with a condition that at
              least 75% of built-up space should be used by Biotech industries including
              Pharma, Contract research organisations in Biotechnology, Bio-Informatics,
              etc.

          •   facilitate and provide external infrastructure like access roads, power,
              communication, water supply, dump sites for waste disposal, etc. in deserving
              cases.

          •   exempt Biotech Parks having a height of not exceeding 30 metres in Chennai,
              Coimbatore, Tiruchirappalli, Madurai and Tirunelveli from the requirement
              of MSB declaration. Such parks should however follow other statutory
              regulations.

          •   provide fast track approvals: Guidance Bureau will be mandated to provide
              single window clearance and facilitation for Biotech projects and Biotech
              Parks.

          •   exempt such projects from standard ventilation requirements, considering
              that Biotech projects require clean-rooms operating environment.



       ••••                                                                              17




1n.l
-
        •••                             INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


        11.4 Bio-Incubators


                 Bio-Incubators facilitate licensing of new technologies to biotech companies
        to start new ventures, and to get early stage value enhancement with minimum
        financial inputs. They help in the lab to land transfer of the technologies through
        partnership between R&D institutes and industry. The State Government will offer
        subsidy to Universities and Engineering colleges to establish such Bio-Incubators at
        50% of the total cost of development, capped at Rs. 5 crore for each Bio-Incubator
        centre.
    I
        12. BIOTECHNOLOGY VENTURE CAPITAL

                 The State Government will constitute a Biotechnology Venture Capital Fund
        of Rs. 500 crore on PPP mode, in collaboration with leading venture capital and
        private equity firms who have specialized in this field through joint ventures with
        TIDCO. Such joint-venture Capital Fund will help in identifying and nurturing
    I   talent and in establishing networks for effective marketing of the products of the
        start-ups.

        13. POWER

             •   Uninterrupted power supply will be provided to Biotech Parks. Such parks
                 will be exempted from any power cuts and peak load restrictions.

             •   VAT on Captive power including gensets purchased for installation in Biotech
                 Parks will be exempted / refunded.

             •   Biotech projects coming under manufacturing category will be charged on
                 par with industries. Biotech projects coming under research and development
                 category will be charged under tariff HT IIA.

             •   Electricity Tax exemption will be according to eligible investment and direct
                 employment given as per the provisions of Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2014 .


        18                                                                              •••
    BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014
                                                                                      •••
    14. THE ANNUAL BIOTECHNOLOGY CONVENTION

              At present, the Government of Tamil Nadu hosts a major annual event
    "Connect" that attracts a lot of IT firms from all over the world. On similar lines, the
    Government of Tamil Nadu will organize an annual Biotechnology Convention in
    collaboration with the Department of Biotechnology, Govt. of India and Industry
    bodies.

    15. FISCAL INCENTIVES

       •   Fiscal incentives like capital subsidy and           Environment Protection
           Infrastructure subsidy will be as per the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2014.


       •   Investment Promotion Soft Loan / Subsidy based on VAT accruals will
           be given depending on size of eligible investment, direct employment and
           location, as done for manufacturing industries.


       •   For R&D institutions and Contract Research Organisations (where there will
           be no VAT accruals), a Special Capital subsidy of 15% of eligible investment
           subject to a cap of Rs. Five crore will be given.

       •   Eligible investment will include up to a maximum of 30% of eligible fixed
           assets in the form of intangible assets like IPR-related expenses incurred,
           Technology fees paid, etc.



I      •   A training subsidy: Rs. 7,500 per Trainee per month up to 12 months will be
           provided in deserving cases for taking fresh graduates on regular employment,
           provided the employer pays an equal or more amount to the trainee.

       •   Patent Registration subsidy will be provided, restricted to 50% of Patent
           registration expenses subject to a cap of Rs.2 lakhs per patent .




    ••••                                                                                  19
    ■ ■ ■ Ill                      INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


    16. SINGLE WINDOW FACILITATION

            Single Window Clearance will be provided for all biotechnology R&D and
    manufacturing projects with a minimum investment of Rs. 10 crore through the
    Guidance Bureau, the notified agency for Single Window Clearance in the State.

    17. NANOTECHNOLOGY

    17.1. Introduction

            Nanotechnology deals with understanding and control of matter at dimension
    of roughly 100 nm and below. At this scale, the physical, chemical and biological
    properties of materials differ from the properties of individual atoms and molecules
    or bulk matter, which enable novel applications. Like Biotechnology, it has a cross-
    sectoral application and an interdisciplinary orientation.


I   17.2. Nanotechnology R&D

            Currently, Nanotechnology research and development is directed towards
    understanding and creating improved materials, devices and systems that exploit
    these properties as they are discovered and characterized. There are many applications
    of nanotechnology such as in the area of medicine, chemistry and environment,
    energy, agriculture, information and communication, heavy industry and consumer
    goods. Nanotechnology can enable cost-effective solar and fuel cells with higher
    efficiency. Nano-materials could also facilitate energy saving through nano-materials
    aided efficient lighting (LEDs), nano-catalysts that improve combustion processes
    and also better insulation materials. Overall, nanotechnology interventions could
    enable the successful development of renewable energy solutions and reduce our
    dependence on fossil fuels. Nanotechnology is stated to enhance agricultural
    productivity through genetic improvement and make crops more resistant to
    heat and water logging. Water treatment and remediation is another critical area
    where nanotechnology applications might aid developing countries. Some of the


    20                                                                             rill ■ ■ ■
    BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014
                                                                                      •••
    interventions include water purification, detection of contaminants and waste
!   water treatment.
i


    17.3. Commercialization of Nanotechnology

          At the commercial level, nanotechnology applications have so far found wide
    use in three major industry sectors, viz., materials and manufacturing (coatings and
    composites for products like automobiles and buildings), electronics (displays and
    batteries) and health care and life sciences (pharmaceutical applications).

    17.4. Nanotechnology in India

           17.4.1. Nanotechnology in India so far has been a government-led initiative.
    Industry participation has started only very recently. Nanotechnology R&D is
'   largely being conducted at government-funded universities and research institutes,
    except in a few cases.

'
           17.4.2. The initiatives of the Government of India include the Nanoscience
    and Technology Initiative (NSTI) from 2001- 06, the Nanoscience and Technology
    Mission (NSTM) in 2007 and the setting up of 19 'Centers of Excellence (CoE) for
    Nanoscience and Technology'.

           17.4.3. Like Biotechnology, the development of nanotechnology requires:

                 (a) skills of both scientific and non-scientific kind, including regulatory
                 bodies,

                 (b) a greater degree of linkages between various actors from academia,
                  industry, policy makers for successful market deployment of such
                  technologies,

                 (c) a different R&D strategy as well as reorientation of science and
                  technology activities in universities, research in~titutes, funding
                  agencies and industry with a conducive institutional setting facilitating
                  interactive learning,

    •••                                                                                   21
    ■ ■ ■ II
                                      INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU



I                    (d) devising adaptive and responsive governance structures that can
                     suitably regulate applications of nanotechnology in society, and

                     (e) a policy environment to create the conditions required for both
                     knowledge generation and its effective utilization.

    17.5. Risks associated with Nanotechnology
I
               However, there are also quite a few risks associated with Nanotechnology. The
    complexity of the technology, the breadth of nano-materials and its applications,
    coupled with the possibility of its wide dissemination in the globalised world renders
    the technology unpredictable in many senses. The risks include environmental,
    health, occupational and socio economic risks. Therefore it is crucial to examine
    and estimate the risk for regulating the production, use, consumption and disposal
    of these materials.

     17.6 The Way-ahead
I
               Nanotechnology, right now, is in a nascent stage of development in India.
     Given the potential and the revolutionary benefits associated with Nanotechnology,
     it is necessary to harness the technology for the overall development of the State.
    The Vision 2023 Tamil Nadu unveiled by Hon'ble Chief Minister in March 2012
     envisions Tamil Nadu emerging as a knowledge and innovation hub in the country;
     the large pool of technical manpower available in the State can be harnessed to
     specializations in advanced fields like Nanotechnology. The State's Solar Policy and
     the need for industries to find better technologies for waste treatment provide great
     scope for further developments through Nanotechnology. However, the concerns
     about the possible adverse impact of the technology on health, environment and
     personal safety should be addressed dispassionately. Towards this end, the State
     Government will constitute a Nanotechnology Advisory Committee comprising
     experts in the field to advise the State government on the road-map for the sector
     in Tamil Nadu.



     22                                                                                 • •••
        !


            I   BIOTECHNOLOGY POLICY 2014
                                                                                           ••••
            I         A Centre of Excellence for Nanotechnology will be established at Anna

            I   University, Chennai to undertake research and development and related activities
                in the field to take the State to the next level in this special area of technology
                as outlined in the Vision 2023 Tamil Nadu document. TIDCO Centre for Life
1,,             Sciences (TICEL) under TIDCO will be the nodal agency for implementing this
                venture.
        f

                                                       ***
    '


    '
    '

    I



    '




    '
    '

        I




        I




:

'




    l..


                • •••                                                                           23
    •••                       INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




I




                     INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT
                           (Government of Tamil Nadu)
                     Secretariat, Fort St. George, Chennai - 600 009.
     Tel : +91 -044-25671383 Fax : +91 -044-25670822 E-mail: indsec@tn.gov.in

    24                                                                    •••
