    GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


      TAMIL NADU
  CIRCULAR ECONOMY
INVESTMENT POLICY 2026
          GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




            TAMIL NADU
        CIRCULAR ECONOMY
        INVESTMENT POLICY
               2026




Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
                  Government of Tamil Nadu
Contents
1. Introduction................................................................................................................................................................ 6

2. Need for Policy............................................................................................................................................................ 8		
       2.1. Rationale for the Policy: A pathway to responsible production
       2.2. Vision

3. Scope of the Policy...................................................................................................................................................... 9

4. Sector Covered under the Policy..............................................................................................................................10		
        4.1 Textiles
        4.2 Automobile
		              a) Promotion of scrappage of End-of-Life Vehicles
		              b)Advanced-Chemistry Cell(ACC) Recycling....
		c) Tyre
        4.3. Electronics
		              a) Consumer Goods
		              b) Solar Modules
        4.4. Plastics

5. Incentives for Promotion of Circular Economy...................................................................................................16
       5.1. Special Package of Incentives for Recycling Facilities
       5.2. Incentive for Technology Enablers/Platform Entities.
       5.3. Incentives offered under the MSME Policy 2021 and FameTN Sponsorship Policy

6. Other Support for Circular Economy....................................................................................................................19		
       6.1. Circular Economy Repository
       6.2. Tamil Nadu Green Climate Fund (TNGCF)
       6.3. Circular Economy Enablement Forum
       6.4. Skill Augmentation
       6.5. Development of Low-Carbon Green Industrial Park
       6.6. Institutional Linkages for Technology Transfer
       6.7. Waste exchange Bureau
       6.8. Green Rating of industries

7. Policy Implementation..............................................................................................................................................21		
        7.1. Implementation Mechanism
        7.2. Policy Period
1. Introduction
The Circular Economy promotes markets that incentivize the reuse of products instead of discarding them
and extracting new resources. In such an economy, all forms of waste are viewed as valuable resources,
continuously reintegrated into production cycles or repurposed to maximise efficiency and minimize
environmental impact. This approach not only helps protect the environment but also ensures the wiser use
of natural resources, fosters the development of new sectors, creates jobs, and builds new capabilities.

The global consumption patterns driven by convenience and fast-paced lifestyles are becoming increasingly
resource-intensive. To meet these demands, manufacturing systems have predominantly adopted a linear
model that prioritises rapid upgrades and a diverse range of product offerings. This approach prioritises
speed and variety over sustainability, neglecting the key principles of reducing, reusing, and recycling that
form the foundation of a circular economy. Between 2016 and 2021, it is estimated that over half a trillion
tonnes of virgin materials were consumed. Transitioning from a linear ‘take, make, and dispose’ model to a
circular system can reduce material extraction and consumption by one-third, unlock up to USD 4.5 Trillion
in economic growth and lead to a net increase of 7-8 million jobs by 2030.

Adopting Circular Economy practices in India can generate savings of over USD 624 Billion by 2050 across
Agriculture & Food, Mobility and Construction.




6
Tamil Nadu: A Leader in Sustainable
Industrial Development
Tamil Nadu, the second-largest economy in India
is marching towards becoming a Trillion-dollar
economy by 2030. With the manufacturing sector
forming the backbone of the State’s economic
growth story, the material consumption and
demand for resources to support the desired
growth is expected to increase significantly.

Tamil Nadu has been at the forefront of adopting
circular economy practices, particularly in the
recycling and reuse of water for industrial purposes
under the Tertiary Treated Reverse Osmosis (TTRO)
scheme. With a capacity of approximately 90 MLD
(million litres per day), this initiative supports
major industrial clusters in the Chennai region by
providing a sustainable alternative water source,
serving as critical infrastructure to address water
scarcity while ensuring resource efficiency and
resilience.

Similarly, to encourage the uptake of sustainable
practices among industries, the Government
through the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy, 2021
(TNIP) provides for green industry incentives. Key
among them being, renewable energy incentive to
setup captive units and plant-based sustainability-
focused infrastructure.

Such measures have ensured that the industrial
ecosystem in Tamil Nadu has one of the lowest
emissions among the industrialised economies in
India. To advance these initiatives, Tamil Nadu
has launched the pioneering Tamil Nadu Climate
Change Mission, the first of its kind at the sub-
national level. Additionally, key industries in the
State, including textiles, cement, automobiles,
and steel, have been actively exploring circular
manufacturing practices.

The Circular Economy Policy aims to position
Tamil Nadu as a leader in circular manufacturing,
setting an example for both Indian states and other
developing economies worldwide.

                                                       7
2. Need for Policy
2.1. Rationale for the Policy: A Pathway to Responsible Production
The Circular Economy policy is essential to align industries with global sustainability standards and enhance
their competitiveness in evolving markets. The policy will support industry readiness for the green transition
and low-carbon manufacturing by aligning with key initiatives such as the European Union (EU) Carbon
Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM), European union Deforestation Regulation (EUDR), the Ecodesign for
Sustainable Products Regulation, the Ecomark scheme, and digital traceability tools like the Digital Product
Passport. This alignment aims to retain export market access and attract investment from global brands
including foreign direct investment (FDI) in circular technology and business models.

Adopting circular principles fosters innovation and product differentiation, enabling industries to design
sustainable products, implement eco-friendly manufacturing processes, and extend product life cycles. This
approach not only meets the growing global demand for green products, but also enhances market access and
strengthens industry leadership in sustainable practices.

The transition to a circular economy also brings significant cost efficiencies through resource optimisation. By
integrating recycling, remanufacturing, and waste reduction into operations, companies can lower production
costs, reduce dependence on raw materials, and improve profitability.

Furthermore, the policy emphasizes the importance of leveraging global green-financing opportunities.
With increasing availability of international funding and incentives for sustainable practices, industries can
secure the resources needed to adopt advanced technologies, modernize infrastructure, and scale sustainable
solutions.

This policy aims to build resilience in industries, ensuring compliance with emerging global standards and
fostering long-term growth in a low-carbon economy. It provides a pathway for businesses to thrive while
contributing to national and global sustainability goals.




2.2. Vision
Tamil Nadu aspires to be a global hub for circular economy solutions, fostering sustainable manufacturing,
resource-efficient consumption, and innovation-driven growth. By leading the transition to a regenerative and
responsible economy, the State aims to set a benchmark for sustainability and attract investment in circular
industries and creation of green jobs

8
3. Scope of the Policy
The policy shall support investments in the following areas:

    • Manufacturing entities that incorporate circularity by utilizing discarded products, industrial waste, or
      waste water as primary inputs and converting them into usable outputs, either for end-use consumption
      or as intermediate goods for downstream manufacturing through processes such as recovery, reuse,
      remanufacturing, resource extraction, and waste water recycling.

    • Technology-driven waste management platforms, headquartered in Tamil Nadu, that leverage digital
      solutions to serve as aggregators, linking waste generators, recyclers, and brands. These platforms
      shall facilitate material traceability, enable efficient recycling logistics, support Extended Producer
      Responsibility (EPR) compliance, and integrate with supply chains to ensure a scalable, transparent,
      and circular waste value chain.




                                                                                                             9
4. Sectors Covered under the Policy
Circularity, as a domain, encompasses a wide spectrum of activities and sub-sectors. As an initial transition
towards adoption of circular practices in the State, the scope shall cover the following sectors – Textiles,
Automobile, Electronics, and Plastics.



     4.1. Textiles

Textile waste refers to any unwanted or discarded fabric or clothing that can no longer serve its intended
function. Globally, textile waste amounts to 92 million tonnes annually, with projections reaching 134 million
tonnes by 2030. By 2050, over 150 million tonnes of textile waste are expected to be incinerated or sent to
landfills.

Advancements in recycling technologies, traceability systems, and value realization methods can unlock
significant market opportunities. Global regulations mandating eco-design and sustainable product labeling,
particularly from major export partners, drive the adoption of circular manufacturing processes. Additionally,
there is a growing consumer demand for sustainable products in the textile sector, driven by increasing
awareness and preference for environmentally responsible choices.

Tamil Nadu has already launched a special scheme to encourage Man-Made Fibre (MMF) Yarn development
through recycled textiles. Through this policy, the State shall encourage advancements in recycling
technologies, traceability systems and market dissemination towards adopting circularity, to drive sustainable
textile production.

The unorganized nature of textile recycling in India gives rise to traceability and value realization challenges.
The formalisation of this market could unlock a USD 418.2 Million opportunity by 2032. This includes
advancements in recycling processes, adoption of chemical recycling technologies, and leveraging India’s
expertise in mechanical recycling to drive sustainable textile production.

The State shall support textile manufacturing units that invest in advanced recycling technologies or processes
aimed at converting pre-consumer and post-consumer textile waste into yarn, fabric, or other related products
that can be reintegrated into the textile manufacturing value chain or used as direct consumer goods.




10
   4.2. Automobile

a) Promotion of Scrappage of End-of-Life Vehicles
It is estimated that by the end of 2030, 1.56 Crore vehicles in the State will enter the scrapping market.
To manage this scale effectively, the State has come out with an appropriate mechanism to facilitate the
development of Registered Vehicle Scrapping Facilities (RVSFs) and related infrastructure in line with the
Government of India’s Voluntary Vehicle Fleet Modernisation Program (VVMP), also known as ‘Vehicle
Scrapping Policy’.




b) Advanced-Chemistry Cell (ACC) Recycling
Advanced-Chemistry Cell recycling focuses on recycling advanced batteries, which store energy
electrochemically and convert it back to electricity. Within the prevalent cell chemistries, Lithium–ion batteries
have significant market driven by Electric Mobility, consumer electronics and Energy Storage Systems (ESS).
Incidentally, this chemistry also has the potential to recover critical materials such as lithium (Li), nickel and
cobalt.

The cumulative potential of lithium-based battery storage in India is 600 GwH, out of which about 128 GwH
is expected to enter the recycling market by 2030.

The established EV manufacturing in Tamil Nadu presents significant opportunity for Li based recycling.
Furthermore, the Battery Waste Management Rules, 2022, mandate Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR)
for battery producers, which necessitates the need for innovations in battery recycling and traceability
initiatives.

The State shall support enterprises that operate across the entire value chain of lithium-ion batteries, from
collection and diagnostics of used batteries to their safe dismantling, mechanical/eco-hydrometallurgy based
black mass recovery, and critical material extraction. The recovered materials shall serve as an input to lithium-
ion cell manufacturing. Furthermore, lithium-ion batteries can be repurposed for second-life applications
such as energy storage for home, emergency power systems, EV charging stations, and as replacements for
diesel generators, among other uses.

                                                                                                                11
c) Tyre
India is the third largest automobile market in the world with close to 4 million vehicle registrations in 2023,
with the tyre manufacturing sector reaching a total production of 217 million units. Currently, the rubber &
tyre recycling industry in India is valued at USD 400 Million and has a potential to grow tenfold in the next
decade.The Government of India has mandated EPR for tyre producers, recyclers and retreaders towards
sustainable management of waste generated.

Tamil Nadu is a key hub for tyre manufacturing in India, contributing 25% of the country’s total tyre exports,
amounting to USD 700 million in FY 2024. The adoption of circular practices can enhance the export
competitiveness of Tamil Nadu in this sector.

Recognizing Tamil Nadu’s position as a leading tyre manufacturing and export hub, the State shall support
entities involved in sustainable tyre recycling methods such as



                           1. Mechanical Recycling (Shredding & Grinding)
                           2. Devulcanization (Thermal or Mechanical)
                           3. Pyrolysis
                           4. Cryogenic Recycling
                           5. Ambient Grinding
                           6. Microwave or Plasma Treatment
                           7. Circular Product Design & Retreading
                           8. Biological Processing (Experimental stage)
                           9. Any other emerging eco-friendly recycling methods.


The scope of the policy shall cover entities engaged in tyre recycling through any recognized sustainable
method, including mechanical, thermal or biological processes. It shall specifically support operations that
supply recycled tyre-derived products as critical inputs to downstream manufacturing industries such as
automobiles (including tyre manufacturing), footwear, chemicals, capital goods, and other allied sectors where
such outputs form a significant part of the production value chain.




12
13
     4.3. Electronics

a) Consumer Goods
Electronic waste, or e-waste, refers to electrical and electronic equipment and its parts that have been discarded
without the intent of re-use.16 The global e-waste management market is valued at USD 17.1 Billion in 2023
and is projected to grow to USD 71.6 Billion by 2034, driven by mandates for responsible manufacturing and
increasing consumer demand.17

As the third-largest generator of e-waste, India produced 1.6 million metric tonnes in 202218. In order to
address the challenges arising from this, the Government of India came out with the E-Waste Management
Rules (2022), emphasising EPR as a key strategy for reduction of e-waste. However, only about 10% of e-waste
is processed formally, with hazardous informal methods remaining prevalent19.

Tamil Nadu is the second-largest producer of computers, electronics, and optical products. On the consumption
side, the sale of smartphones and other white goods has recorded a 35% year-on-year growth. It is estimated
that approximately 31,000 metric tonnes of e-waste are generated annually within Tamil Nadu. Strengthening
mechanisms for reverse logistics and material recovery systems can enhance the effectiveness of e-waste
recycling.




b) Solar Modules
Solar waste refers to the discarded or end-of-life components of solar photovoltaic (PV) systems, including
solar panels and associated electronic equipment.

In India, Electricity generation in solar energy market is projected to reach 104.60 billion kWh in 2025 and is
anticipated to grow at a CAGR of 7.50% till 202920. International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) projects
that waste from cumulative solar PV projects globally will rise to 4 million tonnes in 2030 and ~ 50 million
tonnes by 2040.

As per the current prevailing solar technologies, India’s solar panel waste by 2030 will amount to 340 kilo
tonnes. Approximately 67% of this waste is expected to be generated in five states, namely Rajasthan, Gujarat,
Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.


14
Under the E-Waste (Management) Rules, 2022, solar photovoltaic modules, panels, or cell waste generated
till 2034-2035 can be stored as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines. This provides for
a significant opportunity for recyclers to act on an existing inventory waste stockpile and extract critical
materials to pursue new avenues.

The scope of the policy shall cover entities engaged in the recycling and upcycling of electronic waste—
including post-consumer electronics, manufacturing scrap from electronic production units, and end-of-life or
defective solar photovoltaic (PV) modules—through environmentally sound and compliant processes. These
recycling operations shall facilitate the recovery of high-value materials such as copper, aluminium, gold,
silver, rare earth elements, silicon, and glass. The recovered materials shall be positioned as critical inputs
for downstream industries including electronics manufacturing, solar energy systems, electrical equipment,
automotive components, and strategic material supply chains.




    4.4. Plastics

Transitioning to a circular economy for plastics presents a substantial environmental and economic opportunity
for Tamil Nadu. The current linear model, where plastics are produced, used, and then discarded, contributes
to significant environmental and social costs. A circular economy approach, focused on reducing, reusing, and
recycling plastics, offers a more sustainable alternative. Globally, the plastic recycling industry is projected
to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 4.3%, reaching USD 61.7 billion by 2032, up from
USD 41.9 billion in 2023. Tamil Nadu, which produces 4.3 lakh metric tonnes of plastic waste each year, can
attract investments in innovative recycling technologies such as AI-powered sorting, biological recycling, and
chemical recycling. Moreover, the focus on circularity fosters opportunities for investments in sustainable
packaging solutions, reducing the reliance on virgin plastics and promoting a more closed-loop system.

Tamil Nadu is dedicated to addressing plastic pollution through this policy and initiatives like the ban on
single-use plastics since January 1, 2019. This ban encompasses a range of single-use plastic items, and
is supported by the “People’s Campaign against throwaway plastics,” including the “Meendum Manjappai”
initiative, promoting cloth bags.




                                                                                                              15
5. Incentives for promotion of Circular Economy
This section outlines a comprehensive set of measures aimed at fostering circular economy contributing to
the long-term sustainability and competitiveness of industries in Tamil Nadu. The incentives offered are as
follows:
         I. Special Package of Incentives for recycling facilities
         II. Incentive for technology enablers/platform entities.
         III. Incentives offered under the MSME Policy 2021 and FameTN Sponsorship Policy.

5.1. Special Package of Incentives for Recycling Facilities
Eligibility
Companies fulfilling the following criteria, post 01.07.2024, shall be eligible to avail Special Package of
Incentives outlined under this section.

A. Nature of Activities/Adoption of Practices.
Entities establishing recycling facilities in sectors mentioned in section 4, either as integrated in-house units
or as standalone operations, undertaking activities related to the recycling, recovery, and upcycling of eligible
waste streams into intermediate goods for manufacturing applications or final goods for direct consumption,
in an environmentally sustainable manner, shall be covered under the scope of this policy.
Further the entities shall fulfil the following eligibility criteria:


                          Parameters                                    Criteria
                                                       Minimum of Rs.20 Crore investment
                                                       in Eligible Fixed Assets (EFA) within a
                      Minimum Investment
                                                       Standard Investment period of 2 years
                                                       from 01.07.2024.

                                                       Eligible entities shall be required to derive
                                                       a minimum of 50% of their total revenue in
                                                       case of the facility being developed within
                                                       an existing manufacturing unit or >80% of
                                                       their total revenue in case of a stand-alone
                             Revenue
                                                       recycling facility from the sale of recycled
                                                       materials that serve either as critical
                                                       inputs for downstream manufacturing
                                                       industries or are directly utilized as end-
                                                       use consumer products.


                           Employment                  Minimum 25 new hires

*Note: The Investment and employment criteria must be fulfilled within the Standard Investment Period of
two years. The turnover criteria shall be measured during the incentive disbursal period. The definition of EFA
shall be as per TNIP 2021, however the proportion of land in the overall EFA will be capped at 20% of the EFA.

16
i. Capital Subsidy
Eligible entities shall be provided a capital subsidy of 10% of Eligible Fixed Assets (EFA) disbursed over 5
years in equal annual instalments from the Date of Commencement of Operations and upon fulfilment of the
minimum eligible investment of Rs. 20 Crore and minimum employment of 25 net new jobs whichever is
later, subject to a ceiling of Rs. 3 Crore.

ii. Employment Incentive
Eligible units will receive an employment incentive as a reimbursement of employer’s EPF contribution for net
new jobs created during the policy period. This incentive will be provided for one year, capped at Rs. 10,000
per employee per month for employees domiciled in Tamil Nadu, with a maximum limit of 50 employees per
organization.

iii. Skilling Incentive
Skilling Subsidy of Rs.10,000 per person can be availed for trainings offered by the companies on sustainability
audit/compliance/ESG related courses curated and/or empanelled by TNSDC.


5.2.   Incentive for Technology Enablers/Platform Entities.
Technology enablers/Platform entities shall be defined as tech-driven waste management platforms that
leverage digital solutions to serve as aggregators, linking waste generators, recyclers, and brands. These
platforms shall facilitate material traceability, enable efficient recycling logistics, support Extended Producer
Responsibility (EPR) compliance, and integrate with supply chains to ensure a scalable, transparent, and
circular waste value chain.

Eligibility
Technology enablers/Platform entities, headquartered in Tamil Nadu, registered on or after 01.07.2024, with a
net new employment of 15 jobs created within one year of commencement of operations, and with a minimum
annual turnover of Rs. 10 Crore in FY 25-26 or later, shall be considered eligible for the payroll subsidy.

i.Payroll Subsidy
The payroll subsidy shall be paid for employees domiciled in Tamil Nadu as follows and the payroll subsidy
shall be capped at Rs.20,000 per employee per month.




                     Period of Subsidy                         % of Annual Payroll Cost
                              Year 1                                          30%

                              Year 2                                          20%

                              Year 3                                          10%



The company should maintain both eligible turnover and employment throughout the incentive period.



                                                                                                               17
5.3.   Incentives offered under the MSME Policy 2021 and FameTN Sponsorship Policy

MSMEs as defined under the Tamil Nadu MSME Policy 2021 not eligible for incentives listed under Section
4.1, may avail the following incentives as per the TN MSME Policy 2021 and FameTN sponsorship policy,
subject to meeting the eligibility criteria.

i. Special Capital Subsidy
Eligible units can avail Special Capital Subsidy equivalent to 25% of plant and machinery value, subject to a
maximum of up to Rs. 1.50 Crore, disbursed in three instalments.

ii. Additional Capital Subsidy
To promote cleaner and environmentally friendly technologies, an additional capital subsidy of 25% of plant
and machinery value installed, subject to a maximum of Rs. 10 Lakh.

iii. Scheme for acquiring Quality Certifications (Q-CERT)
Eligible units will be supported with 100% reimbursement for circularity related certification and consulting
charges, subject to a maximum of Rs. 2 Lakh per unit for national certifications and Rs. 10 Lakh per unit for
international certifications.

iv. Subsidy for Intellectual Property Creation
Eligible entities can avail up to 75% subsidy on the cost of filing the patent registration application, subject to
a maximum of Rs. 3 Lakh per patent registered and subject to the entity applying within 6 months from the
date of patent registration.

v. Innovation Voucher Program
Eligible entities can avail an innovation grant voucher to develop their ideas and commercialise them. The
following vouchers are provided to support them:

        •   Voucher A: 80% of the total budget for the development of new product or production process,
            subject to a limit of Rs. 2 Lakh.
        •   Voucher B: 50% of the total budget to promote existing or early-stage companies with innovative
            commercial products to support in accessing potential markets, subject to a limit of Rs. 5 Lakh.
        •   For SC/ST candidates, 100% of the total budget for approved activities shall be allowed, subject
            to the respective ceilings in Voucher A and Voucher B.

vi. Marketing Support
Eligible units can avail the below marketing support

        •   As per the MSME policy 2021, MSME associations in the State shall be supported with
            reimbursement of 50% of the hall rent for conducting exhibitions in India and 50% of the rent
            paid towards stalls or space charges, subject to a maximum of Rs. 7.5 Lakh for domestic events
            and up to Rs. 15 Lakh for international events.
        •   As per the FameTN Sponsorship Policy, individual MSME units can claim reimbursements
            for expenditure incurred towards setting up stalls, participation in seminars/conferences,
            exhibitions and buyer-seller meets in domestic and international events, subject to meeting
            eligibility criteria.


18
6. Other Support for Circular Economy
6.1. Circular Economy Repository
Circular Economy Repository for Tamil Nadu shall be developed and spearheaded by the Tamil Nadu Green
Climate Company (TNGCC). The repository will act as an information-exchange portal mapping existing
circular economy initiatives, including identification of active recycling centres, allow industries to identify
stock/requirements of recyclable materials, industrial networks, helping stakeholders uncover opportunities
for collaboration and resource sharing. Further, the platform will also showcase the best practices undertaken
by industries.

In addition, the MSME department shall create sustainability desks at District Industries Centre (DICs) to
support awareness creation of existing sustainability-related schemes, dissemination of information on latest
technologies and solutions.


6.2. Tamil Nadu Green Climate Fund (TNGCF)
The Tamil Nadu Green Climate Fund (TNGCF) is a Social Impact Fund established to accelerate the State’s
transition towards a net-zero and climate-resilient future. With ‘Circular Economy’ as one of its key investment
focus areas, TNGCF supports projects that emphasise material recycling and wealth creation from waste,
subject to meeting the eligibility conditions.

6.3. Circular Economy Enablement Forum
Circular Economy Enablement Forum consisting of key stakeholders from Government, industry, academia
and environmental organisations shall be convened by the Guidance Tamil Nadu, to serve as a collaborative
platform.


6.4. Skill Augmentation
As a key measure towards formalisation, efficient, and safe handling of waste in the State, upskilling programs
for stakeholders engaged in the sector shall be developed or scaled in collaboration with leading knowledge
partners and regulatory agencies such as Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). Development of
courses and certifications in circular manufacturing shall be undertaken in convergence with Tamil Nadu
Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC).


6.5. Development of low-carbon Green Industrial Park
SIPCOT, in collaboration with national/international partners, shall develop a Low-Carbon Green Industrial
Park, a first of its kind in India, to support in circular manufacturing. These parks will strive to reduce Scope-1
and Scope-2 emissions.


6.6. Institutional Linkages for Technology Transfer
The Government shall undertake targeted efforts to facilitate tech-based knowledge transfers from leading
research institutions such as Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and IIT-M to recyclers and
relevant stakeholders.

                                                                                                                 19
6.7. Waste Exchange Bureau
The Online Waste Exchange Bureau, developed by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), is a
digital platform that facilitates efficient and transparent exchange of industrial waste between registered waste
generators and authorized waste receivers, promoting circular economy practices in the State.


6.8. Green Rating of industries
Industries may apply for the Voluntary Green Rating, also administered by TNPCB, evaluating industries on
key environmental performance parameters such as energy efficiency, water conservation, sustainable waste
management and green initiatives through independent third-party assessments. This provides a platform
for industries to showcase their commitment to environmental sustainability and gain formal recognition for
their efforts.

20
7. Policy Implementation
7.1. Implementation Mechanism
The existing institutional mechanism for sanction and disbursal of investment related incentives to industries
and other implementation guidelines (as per TNIP 2021 or TN MSME Policy 2021 or the prevailing industrial
policy) shall be applicable to the industries eligible under this Policy. Entities availing incentives under this
policy shall comply to applicable necessary TNPCB clearances with respect to environmental norms and
register on CPCB’s EPR portal and TNPCB’s online waste exchange bureau, if applicable.

To maximise the benefits of adopting circularity, the policy shall progressively expand its scope beyond
the aforementioned sectors. In such cases, the Inter-Departmental Committee shall assess the eligibility of
companies on a case-by-case basis, ensuring flexibility to accommodate innovations and evolving industry
needs.

7.2.   Policy Period
This Policy shall be valid for a period of 5 years from the date of the policy notification, or till a new Policy is
announced.




                                                                                                                  21
