NADU                 TAMIL NADU

ENTRE
   DATA CENTRE
     TAMIL
ICY POLICY NADU

              DATA CENTRE
                POLICY
     I N F O R M AT I O N T E C H N O L O G Y D E PA R T M E N T
LOGY     D E PA R T M E N T
           G O V E R N M E N T O F TA M I L N A D U
 TA M I L       NADU




     I N F O R M AT I O N T E C H N O LO G Y D E PA RT M E N T

           GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

                                                                   1
 CONTENTS
CONTENTS
             Abstract
        Abstract                                                03
                                                            03 03

              Definitions
        Definitions and and    Eligibility
                         Eligibility underunder
                                           the the policy
                                              policy           05
                                                            07 07


    1   1    Preamble
        Preamble                                                06
                                                            08 08


    2   2 Objectives
        Objectives                                              10
                                                            12 12


    3   3 Facilitation
        Facilitation     Measures
                     Measures &   & Enabling
                                Enabling     Ecosystem
                                         Ecosystem              11
                                                            13 13


    4    4 Incentives
        Incentives                                              15
                                                            17 17


    5   5 Building
        Building     Regulations
                 Regulations                                    18
                                                            20 20


    6   6    Implementation
        Implementation of theofPolicy
                                the Policy                      20
                                                            22 22

            Appendix
        Appendix       A - Eligible
                 A - Eligible FixedFixed Assets
                                    Assets                      21
                                                            23 23




2                                                                    2   2
                                          ABSTRACT
Information Technology Department – Data Centre Policy of Tamil Nadu,
2021 – Approved -Orders – Issued
         INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (D1) DEPARTMENT
 G.O.(Ms.) No. 33                                                       Dated: 23.11.2021
                                                                        பிலவ, கார்த்திகக - 7,
                                                                        திருவள்ளுவர்
                                                                        ஆண்டு-2052.
                                                                        Read:

From the Managing Director, ELCOT, Ref: ELCOT/ITPD/ DCP/EPC-ENQ-1/2020, dated 20.05.2021


ORDER:
The Honorable Minister for Information Technology among other things has made the following
announcement for framing of Data Centre Policy for the State of Tamil Nadu in the Legislative Assembly as
given below:-

தரவு கையக் ககாள்கக (Data Centre Policy)
      தரவு உள்ளூர்ையைாக்கல் ததகவகள், மின் வாணிபத்தின் வளர்ச்சி ைற்றும் வாடிக்ககயாளர்களின் ததகவககள
விகரவாகப் பூர்த்தி கெய்திடும் வககயில், தரவு கையங்கள் தவகைாக வளர்ந்து வருகின்றன. 2019-2025 ஆண்டு காலத்தில்,
தரவு கையத்திற்கான ஆண்டு வளர்ச்சி விகிதம் 4 ெதவீதத்திற்கும் தைல் இருக்கும் என எதிர்பார்க்கப்படுகிறது. சிறந்த
அகைவிடம், சிறந்த இகைப்பு வெதி ைற்றும் உபரி மின் ெக்தி ஆகியவற்றின் காரைைாக கென்கன நகரம் தரவு கைய
முகனயைாக வளர்ந்து வருகிறது. இத்துகறயில் வளர்ச்சி, முதலீடு ைற்றும் தவகலவாய்ப்பிகன ஊக்குவித்திடும் வககயில்,
ஒரு தரவு கையக் ககாள்கக கவளியிடப்படும்.
        2. Pursuant to the above announcement, Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu (ELCOT) was
entrusted with the task of formulating the Data Centre Policy for the State of Tamil Nadu. The draft ‘Data
Centre Policy’ prepared by ELCOT was examined in great detail in consultation with various stakeholder
Departments. The suggestions made by those Departments have been incorporated.
        3. The Government, after careful examination have formulated the ‘Data Centre Policy-2021’ with the
following Vision, Mission and Target:-




                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                  3
    Vision
    Develop Tamil Nadu as the numero uno destination for Data Centres by catering to all the specific
    requirements of Data Centres and providing them with an attractive business environment.


    Mission
    To promote Tamil Nadu as an ideal Data Centre investment destination, the Government will adhere to the
    following strategies:
    •   Enable power, land & connectivity infrastructure for Data Centres
    •   Provide fiscal and non-fiscal incentives to Data Centre developers and operators to boost investment in
        the Sector
    •   Support research & development, innovation, and entrepreneurship
    •   Create appropriate institutional measures and supportive technology framework
    •   Promote usage of renewable energy for day-to-day operations
    •   Encourage industries to collaborate with colleges in creating Centres of Excellence (CoE) in research on
        data technologies
    •   Encourage cloud computing & emerging technologies
    •   Promote green Data Centres

    Target
    •   To make Tamil Nadu the destination of choice for investors within India and abroad in the Data Centre
        market
    •   To protect and safeguard the data generated in the country
    •   To provide companies with the ideal business environment
    •   To make available world class infrastructure with emphasis on sustainability through the promotion of
        green technologies
    •   To position Tamil Nadu as a cost-effective destination for Data Centres
    •   To encourage research, development and innovation in the Data Centre segment in the State

                 4. The provisions of the “Data Centre Policy, 2021” have been grouped under the following broad
    heads:           i.     Facilitation Measures & Enabling Ecosystem
                     ii.    Incentives
                     iii.   Building Regulations
                 5. The “Data Centre Policy, 2021” is annexed to this order.
                 6. The Managing Director, ELCOT will be responsible for the administration of the policy,
    monitor the implementation and report the status to Government periodically. Investment promotion for
    Data Centre Policy will be done by Guidance and Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) will be signed
    by Guidance. Fiscal incentives will be disbursed through well established mechanism of State Industries
    Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd (SIPCOT).
                  7. This order issues with the concurrence of the Finance Department vide its U.O. No.
    52074/Fin(Ind.)/2021, dated 23.11.2021. This Order comes into force with effect from 23.11.2021

                                                                                  (By Order of the Governor)


                                                                 NEERAJ MITTAL
                                                   PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT

                                                                                                                   4
4
Definitions and Eligibility under the
policy
  Data Centre (DC) unit
  Data Centre (DC) unit - A Data Centre unit with a minimum Eligible Fixed Assets (EFA) of Rs.500 crore with
  a dedicated secure space in a dedicated building or within a building or a centralized location where
  computing and networking equipment is concentrated for the purpose of collecting, storing, processing,
  distributing or allowing access to large amount of data shall be eligible under the policy for incentives. Captive
  Data Centres for in-house use by the parent organizations shall not be eligible under this policy.



  Data Centre Parks
  Data Centre Parks – An industrial park with a minimum EFA of Rs.500 crore shall be considered a Data
  Centre park. This should provide land, park area (Water, Sewage, Road, Parking, Green Area, etc.),
  provision of DC essentials setup / equipment (Electricity, Network / Fibre connectivity, Mechanical, Electrical
  and Plumbing equipment (MEP)) to all Data Centre units in the park. The individual Data Centre units within
  the park shall not be required to meet the Rs.500 crore eligibility criteria individually to be eligible under this
  policy.



  Edge Data Centres
  Edge Data Centres – serve low latency centric computing applications, are smaller, are established near to
  the place of application or consumption and serve specialized applications such as connected cars,
  autonomous cars, smart cities, smart industry and home automation systems. This definition will be updated
  in line with changing technology from time to time during annual policy review.




                                                                                                                        55
 IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




1. Preamble
1.1. Overview
Tamil Nadu is a leading hub for Data Centres and is poised to become the Data Centre capital of the country. India
has the world’s highest data usage per smartphone, averaging 9.8 GB per month in 2019 and is expected to double
by 2024. India already has the world’s second largest Internet market, after China, with 687.6 million users as of
January 2020 with a corresponding annual increase of 20% in wireless data subscribers in India increased from
2013 to 2020. The Data Centre market in India is expected to increase to US$ 1.5 billion by 2022 at a growth rate of
11.4%.

Given the scale and quantum of data generated and national focus on localisation of data, there is a growing
momentum to host data generated within the country and the State that will increase the demand for Data Centres.
Data Centres, when co-located or located in closer proximity to the businesses, also offer enhanced efficiency in
terms of cost and time for B2B and B2C transactions. They also lead to clustering through innovation, collaboration,
data sharing and engender a talent pool of highly skilled individuals. In addition to the need for and benefits from
establishing Data Centres as a critical digital infrastructure, Tamil Nadu’s focus on Data Centres stems from the
State’s complementary prowess in manufacturing of electronics and electrical equipment such as server systems,
mobile device handsets, tablets and storage devices such as hard drives and memory used in technology, media
and telecom sector. Through this, the State provides a ready built and well-established supply chain for Data
Centres to integrate with and scale within the State.


The recent unprecedented demand for the data storage and processing infrastructure has further created a demand
for Data Centres. More specifically the States that have a strong base of data-centric industries such as biopharma,
banking and finance have felt the need of a strong data ecosystem with the growth in the application of artificial
intelligence, machine learning and analytics. This policy is issued under the umbrella ICT Policy 2018, specifically to
encourage investments in Data Centres.



1.2. Competitive Advantages of Tamil Nadu
Tamil Nadu offers an inherent advantage for Data Centres with high submarine cable network connectivity,
extensive IT & ITeS Infrastructure, technically qualified workforce, State’s expertise in Data Centres, robust
transport infrastructure and pro-investor policies.




 6

                                                                                                                          6
    IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




1.2.1. Submarine Cable Network Connectivity
Tamil Nadu has the second highest number of submarine cable landing stations in India housing over 30% of India’s
subsea cables which connect to 264 landing stations globally. Submarine cables offer two advantages over
communication satellites: shorter communication distance and lower susceptibility to weather conditions ensuring
that the former is a more secure, reliable infrastructure with lower latency. The State has an excellent Optical Fibre
Communication (OFC) network and availability of reliable, large bandwidth. With 6 Submarine Cables offering 14.8
TBPS capacity in Chennai and 1-TBPS in Tuticorin, these cities offer the largest bandwidth connectivity among the
Indian cities and are the closest landing stations connected with the West Coast of the United States of America.
Some of the notable cables are mentioned below:

•    The Submarine Cable that links Chennai with Singapore has the bandwidth of 8.4 Terabit Per Second (TBPS).
     This Cable connects with C2C Cable network, SEA-ME-WE 3 and Asia Pacific Cable Network.

•    Southeast Asia–Middle East–Western Europe 4 (SEA-ME-WE 4) is an Optical Fibre Submarine Communications
     Cable System that carries telecommunications between India (Chennai) and Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand,
     Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Egypt, Italy, Tunisia, Algeria and
     France.

•    The India- Singapore Cable System has a landing station in Chennai. This Cable has significantly increased the
     existing bandwidth capacity into India by 5.12 TBPS and is the second fastest growing communications route in
     the world.
•    Tuticorin is connected by Bharat Lanka Cable System (which is 325 km long).



Strategic location, OFC network and surplus power have ensured the dominance of Tamil Nadu as a hub for
commissioning, operation and maintenance of Data Centres.



1.2.2. State’s Expertise in Data Centres and Network Connectivity
The Government of Tamil Nadu has set up the State Data Centre (SDC), Disaster Recovery Centre (DRC), Cloud
Computing Facilities and Common Service Centres (CSC) for improving the access of citizens to online
Government services. The State Government is undertaking efforts such as the Tamil Nadu State-Wide Area
Network (TNSWAN), National Knowledge Network (NKN), BharatNet and TamilNet to improve tele-density and
broadband penetration and ensure reliable and efficient telecom network throughout the State.




                                                                                                                         7

                                                                                                                         7
 IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




1.2.3. Pro-Investor Policies
The State has signed MoUs for an investment of over Rs. 18,000 Crore in Data Centres during FY 2020-21.


Tamil Nadu has always been proactive and quick to adopt strategies that encourage IT and ITeS which is evidenced
in the recent policies on Block Chain (2020) and Artificial Intelligence (2020) and policies for manufacturers of
electronics and electrical equipment such as Tamil Nadu Electronics Hardware Manufacturing Policy (2020) and
Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy (2021). The umbrella ICT policy 2018 that is already in force already covers Data
Centres. This Data Centre policy adds on to the suite of pro-investor policies that puts Tamil Nadu on the path
towards innovation led growth and technological transformation especially for promoting Data Centres.



1.2.4. IT & ITeS Infrastructure
With 11 % share of total IT investments in India, Tamil Nadu is the preferred IT destination in the Country. Currently
there are 18 dedicated IT/ITeS Special Economic Zones (SEZs) in the State. Chennai is the SaaS Capital of India
and a leading Outsourcing Hub as well.


The IT Industry in Tamil Nadu offers direct employment to nearly 7 lakh individuals and is home to integrated IT
infrastructure consisting of the State Data Centre, State-wide Area Network, Cloud Computing and Disaster Data
Recovery Centre. Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited (ELCOT) has developed IT Parks in Tier-I and
Tier-II cities spread across 1,377 acres of land in eight locations.


The IT Industry witnessed FDI influx of USD 6 billion in 2017-18 and has experienced an export growth rate of 8.6%
over the period of 2013-2018. The revenue for 2017-18 was USD 18 billion. Well-developed Tier II cities with a
lower real estate cost and availability of technically qualified English-speaking workforce have been a huge
attraction to BPO companies. Meanwhile, the Government has encouraged the IT Industry to collaborate with
academia in creating Centres of Excellence in Emerging Technologies (CEET).




1.2.5. Technically Qualified Work Force
Tamil Nadu offers the largest pool of technically qualified professionals in the Country. Around 1.16 lakh students
specialize in Information Technology, Computer Science, Electronics & Telecommunication annually. Post graduate
courses like MCA (Master of Computer Applications) are specially designed to suit the needs of IT-BPO industry.
ICT Academy of Tamil Nadu has been established on PPP basis for furthering industry- academia interface.




 8

                                                                                                                         8
1.3. Scope
The Data Centre policy will specifically cover firms
engaged in the business of developing and operating Data
Centres. These shall broadly include the following:

•   Greenfield Data Centre unit or Data Centre parks
•   Brownfield expansions of existing Data Centre units
    shall be eligible for concessions/relaxations subject to
    certain restrictions
•   Edge Data Centres


To keep pace with the evolution of technology, there would
be an annual review of policy measures and definitions by
the Information Technology Department.


The Data Centre Policy will be applicable for all Data
Centres incorporated from 01.04.2021 and will be
applicable to all Data Centres units/parks incorporated
until 31.03.2026. Operational guidelines and clarifications
as may be required will be issued from time to time by
Information Technology department.




                                                               9
2. Objectives
  2.1. Vision
  Develop Tamil Nadu as the numero uno destination for Data Centres by catering to all the specific
  requirements of Data Centres and providing them with an attractive business environment.




  2.2. Mission
  To promote Tamil Nadu as an ideal Data Centre investment destination, the Government will adhere to the
  following strategies:
  •   Enable power, land & connectivity infrastructure for Data Centres
  •   Provide fiscal and non-fiscal incentives to Data Centre developers and operators to boost investment in
      the Sector.
  •   Support research & development, innovation and entrepreneurship
  •   Create appropriate institutional measures and supportive technology framework
  •   Promote usage of renewable energy for day-to-day operations
  •   Encourage industries to collaborate with colleges in creating Centres of Excellence (CoE) in research on
      data technologies
  •   Encourage cloud computing & emerging technologies
  •   Promote green Data Centres




  2.3. Target
  •   To make Tamil Nadu the destination of choice for investors within India and abroad in the Data Centre
      market
  •   To protect and safeguard the data generated in the country
  •   To provide companies with the ideal business environment
  •   To make available world class infrastructure with emphasis on sustainability through the promotion of
      green technologies
  •   To position Tamil Nadu as a cost-effective destination for Data Centres
  •   To encourage research, development and innovation in the Data Centre segment in the State.




                                                                                                                 10
 IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


 IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




3. Facilitation Measures & Enabling
3. Facilitation Measures & Enabling
Ecosystem
Ecosystem
The Government of Tamil Nadu recognises Data Centres as critical infrastructure and their importance in the
enhanced digital global economy. The State Government shall ensure that Data Centres obtain access to power,
The Government of Tamil Nadu recognises Data Centres as critical infrastructure and their importance in the
people and other resources to establish and operate in the State seamlessly. The TN Data Centre Eco-system shall
enhanced digital global economy. The State Government shall ensure that Data Centres obtain access to power,
be promoted to make the State as a destination of choice of IT investments by the State.
people and other resources to establish and operate in the State seamlessly. The TN Data Centre Eco-system shall
be promoted to make the State as a destination of choice of IT investments by the State.
3.1. Ease of Doing Business – Single Window Clearances
3.1.up of
Setting Ease
          a Data of  Doing
                 Centre           Business
                        requires multiple              – different
                                          approvals from Single         Window
                                                                   departments.        Clearances
                                                                                The Government of Tamil Nadu
offers a single window facilitation to provide end-to-end facilitation support, including information related to
Setting up of a Data Centre requires multiple approvals from different departments. The Government of Tamil Nadu
clearances at State level.
offers a single window facilitation to provide end-to-end facilitation support, including information related to
clearances at State level.
The current single window portal offers more than 100 services/clearances from 14 departments. The key objective
of the single window portal is to ensure time-bound processing of applications and coordination with various
The current single window portal offers more than 100 services/clearances from 14 departments. The key objective
agencies such as Chennai Metropolitan Development authority (CMDA), Directorate of Town and Country Planning
of the single window portal is to ensure time-bound processing of applications and coordination with various
(DTCP), Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNF&RS), Tamil Nadu Police, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board
agencies such as Chennai Metropolitan Development authority (CMDA), Directorate of Town and Country Planning
(TNPCB), Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) and Tamil Nadu Water Supply and
(DTCP), Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNF&RS), Tamil Nadu Police, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board
Drainage Board (TWAD) to get the clearances from them.
(TNPCB), Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) and Tamil Nadu Water Supply and
Drainage Board (TWAD) to get the clearances from them.
Renewable energy projects need to obtain various statutory approvals from multiple State agencies (Example:
TANGEDCO/TANTRANSCO, Chief Electrical Inspectorate General, Forest Department) for setting up a renewable
Renewable energy projects need to obtain various statutory approvals from multiple State agencies (Example:
energy plant. Clearance for setting up Renewable Energy plant for Data Centres has been onboarded to the Single
TANGEDCO/TANTRANSCO, Chief Electrical Inspectorate General, Forest Department) for setting up a renewable
Window Portal.
energy plant. Clearance for setting up Renewable Energy plant for Data Centres has been onboarded to the Single
Window Portal.
The Single Window Portal hosted in Guidance shall be used for the purposes of obtaining single window clearances
as per Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Rules 2018 and deemed approvals shall be granted as mandated under the
The Single Window Portal hosted in Guidance shall be used for the purposes of obtaining single window clearances
rules.
as per Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Rules 2018 and deemed approvals shall be granted as mandated under the

3.2. Establishment of Data Centre Parks
rules.

3.2.    Establishment
With growing demand of Data Centresof   Data
                                    in the Country,Centre      Parks
                                                   Data Centre parks require facilitation of innovation, ease of
accessibility, adequate power capacity by way of sub-stations and overall connectivity. The Government shall
With growing demand of Data Centres in the Country, Data Centre parks require facilitation of innovation, ease of
establish dedicated Data Centre parks with unique infrastructural requirements.
accessibility, adequate power capacity by way of sub-stations and overall connectivity. The Government shall
establish dedicated Data Centre parks with unique infrastructural requirements.

                                                                                                                    1111

                                                                                                                     11
    IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




The following support shall be provided to Data Centre parks by the Government:

•    Uninterrupted Water Supply: The State shall make water available on payment of cost subject to the
     developmental procedures and regulation in force. Data Centres shall be encouraged to recycle water.


•    Sub-leasing of Land / Building in Data Centre Parks: Data Centre parks shall be allowed to sub-lease the
     land/buildings to Data Centre units without any sublease or transfer charges in case of lands allotted by
     ELCOT/SIPCOT/SIDCO.




3.3. Setting Up of Data Centre within State Promoted
ELCOSEZs
Data Centre Developers shall be encouraged to setup Data Centres within the IT SEZs developed by ELCOT. To
achieve inclusive development, ELCOT has established ELCOSEZs (IT Specific Special Economic Zones) across
Chennai and in 6 Tier II cities.
The details of developed IT Parks in Tier-I and Tier-II cities are furnished below:

    City                               Location                                              Extent
    Chennai                            Sholinganallur                                      377 acres
    Coimbatore                         Vilankurichi                                         61 acres
    Madurai                            Ilandhaikulam                                        29 acres
    Madurai                            Vadapalanji                                         245 acres
    Tiruchirappalli                    Navalpattu                                          148 acres
    Tirunelveli                        Gangaikondan                                        290 acres
    Salem                              Jagirammapalayam                                     53 acres
    Hosur                              Viswanathapuram                                     174 acres



3.4. Research and Development
The State shall co-ordinate with authorised agencies such as Electronics Test and Development Centre (ETDC),
National Informatics Centre (NIC), Society for Electronics Transaction and Security (SETS), Standardisation Testing
and Quality Certification (STQC), National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM) and
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) to create a collaborative eco-system for Research and
Development in evolving Data Centre technologies.




    12

                                                                                                                      12
     IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




3.5. Skill Development
The expertise of ELCOT in establishing State Data Centre (SDC) and Disaster Recovery Centre (DRC) shall be
utilized for addressing the skill gap of trained manpower to meet the demands of Data Centres and Cloud
Computing Platform. The Data Centre industry requires a diverse range of technical skillsets encompassing multiple
engineering disciplines. Given the growth of the sector, skilled manpower availability is projected to be a major
challenge. The State shall aim to create a pool of skilled manpower in this sector which will help in attracting
investors to Tamil Nadu. ELCOT will work with ICT Academy to design and conduct courses specific for Data
Centre operations.



3.6. Administrative and Labour Support
As per the Tamil Nadu ICT Policy 2018, Data Centres/Data Centre parks will be permitted to self-certify that they are
maintaining the registers and forms as contemplated under the following:

i.       Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishment Rules, 1947
ii.      Tamil Nadu Payment of Gratuity Rules, 1972
iii.     Tamil Nadu Maternity Benefits Rules, 1964
iv.      Tamil Nadu Contract Labour Rules, 1975
v.       Tamil Nadu Minimum Wages Rules, 1953
vi.      Contract Labour Act, 1970
vii.     Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972
viii.    Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishment (National and Festival) Holidays Act, 1958.
ix.      Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and Festival) Holidays Rules, 1959
x.       Tamil Nadu Payment of Wages Rules, 1937
xi.      Employment Exchange Act, 1959
xii.     Equal Remuneration Act, 1976
xiii.    The Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923
xiv.     Employees’ Provident Fund & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952


Flexibility in labour laws shall be adopted without compromising labour welfare, subject to applicable labour laws
and within the parameters of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 (Central Act 20 of 1946).




                                                                                                                        13

                                                                                                                         13
 IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




The flexibility in working hours, working in three shifts and employment in night shifts may be allowed for women
employees, provided; all necessary security arrangements, facilities of rest room and safe transportations are
arranged; the employers must ensure that night shift work may be carried out under the supervision of women
supervisors and ensure the presence of women security officers.

The employers may also constitute Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) as per the Sexual Harassment of Women
at Workplace Act, 2013. The self-certification by the Data Centres/ Data Centre parks will be regarded as sufficient
compliance with the requirements of the different Acts and the Rules made there under regarding the maintenance
of registers and filing of the returns.


E-filing of returns will be implemented progressively after all the offices of the concerned Inspectors are
computerized for receiving such returns to make the process efficient, effective, transparent and citizen- friendly.


Government will also take necessary action for introduction of Common Annual Returns in place of multiple returns
and reduction in the number of registers maintained at present.




 14

                                                                                                                       14
    IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU



    IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




4. Incentives
4. Incentives
To support the endeavour of Data Centres, the Government shall provide incentives targeted towards the needs of
the industry.
To support the endeavour of Data Centres, the Government shall provide incentives targeted towards the needs of

4.1. Power
the industry.


4.1.    Power
The State Government recognizes the power-intensive nature of the Data Centres. Tamil Nadu is a power surplus
State and a frontrunner in renewable energy. The State shall encourage and support the operations of Data Centres,
The State Government recognizes the power-intensive nature of the Data Centres. Tamil Nadu is a power surplus
especially those that utilise renewable energy for their projects, through the following incentives to the projects with
State and a frontrunner in renewable energy. The State shall encourage and support the operations of Data Centres,
an investment above Rs.500 crores and those who meet at least 30% of their energy consumption from renewable
especially those that utilise renewable energy for their projects, through the following incentives to the projects with
energy sources:
an investment above Rs.500 crores and those who meet at least 30% of their energy consumption from renewable
•energy
   Electricity Tariff: Data Centre units/parks can purchase power from Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution
        sources:
     Corporation Ltd. at prevailing industrial tariff rates as per the governing TNERC regulations.
•    Electricity Tariff: Data Centre units/parks can purchase power from Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution
•    Electricity Tax Waiver: Data Centre facility/Data Centre park shall be eligible for 100% subsidy of Electricity Tax
     Corporation Ltd. at prevailing industrial tariff rates as per the governing TNERC regulations.
     on power purchased from the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd. or generated and
•    Electricity Tax Waiver: Data Centre facility/Data Centre park shall be eligible for 100% subsidy of Electricity Tax
     consumed from captive sources for 5 years from the date of commencement of commercial operation.
     on power purchased from the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd. or generated and
•    Concessional Open Access Charges: As per the latest Tariff Order this charge is 50% of the conventional
     consumed from captive sources for 5 years from the date of commencement of commercial operation.
     charges for Data Centre units.
•    Concessional Open Access Charges: As per the latest Tariff Order this charge is 50% of the conventional
•    Cross subsidy: As per the latest tariff order, State Government charges 60% of the conventional cross-subsidy
     charges for Data Centre units.
     charge for Wind Energy and 70% of the conventional charge for Solar Energy respectively, for third-party open
•    Cross subsidy: As per the latest tariff order, State Government charges 60% of the conventional cross-subsidy
     access consumers. The same shall be extended to Data Centre units /Data Centre parks.
     charge for Wind Energy and 70% of the conventional charge for Solar Energy respectively, for third-party open
•    Dual power from grid: Data Centre units or parks with a sanctioned load of 50 MW or more shall be provided
     access consumers. The same shall be extended to Data Centre units /Data Centre parks.
     with dual power (two different grids from two different locations/providers).
•    Dual power from grid: Data Centre units or parks with a sanctioned load of 50 MW or more shall be provided
•    An additional feeder shall be provided to developer if the sanctioned load of the Data Centre unit /Data Centre
     with dual power (two different grids from two different locations/providers).
     park is more than 100 MW as a Deposit Contribution Work (DCW).
•    An additional feeder shall be provided to developer if the sanctioned load of the Data Centre unit /Data Centre
•    Augmentation of Power: TANGEDCO on best effort basis will augment the supply of power to Data
     park is more than 100 MW as a Deposit Contribution Work (DCW).
     Centres/parks (in MVA) from 11 kV, 33kV, 110 kV and 220 kV substations by 50%.
•    Augmentation of Power: TANGEDCO on best effort basis will augment the supply of power to Data
     Centres/parks (in MVA) from 11 kV, 33kV, 110 kV and 220 kV substations by 50%.
4.2. Stamp Duty Concession
4.2.Centre
Data  Stamp        Duty
           development         Concession
                       is capital intensive and the facilities are built on large land parcels in resourceful localities.
To facilitate the development of the Data Centre market in the State, concessions on Stamp duty/ Registration fee
Data Centre development is capital intensive and the facilities are built on large land parcels in resourceful localities.
paid on sale/lease/transfer of land for Data Centres and parks shall be offered as follows:
To facilitate the development of the Data Centre market in the State, concessions on Stamp duty/ Registration fee
paid on sale/lease/transfer of land for Data Centres and parks shall be offered as follows:



                                                                                                                               15
                                                                                                                             15

                                                                                                                              15
 IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU



 IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




 District Category1                                     Stamp Duty Exemption
                         50% stamp duty concession will be given for purchase/lease of land obtained from ELCOT
  District               / SIDCO/ SIPCOT.
     & “B” Category                                     Stamp Duty Exemption
                    1
 “A”       Category
 Districts               50%the
                         *In       caseduty
                                stamp    of private  lands,
                                            concession        stamp
                                                            will be    dutyforconcession
                                                                    given                will be
                                                                               purchase/lease     given as
                                                                                               of land     50% from
                                                                                                       obtained  backELCOT
                                                                                                                       ended
                         /subsidy
                            SIDCO/(disbursed
                                     SIPCOT. after full investment of Rs.500 crore is achieved) for up to 10 acres for
 “A” & “B” Category      Data
                          *In the case units/parks.
                                Centre   of private lands, stamp duty concession will be given as 50% back ended
 Districts               100%
                         subsidystamp     duty after
                                   (disbursed   exemption      will be given
                                                      full investment           for purchase/
                                                                        of Rs.500              lease offor
                                                                                    crore is achieved)   land  obtained
                                                                                                           up to        from
                                                                                                                 10 acres for
                         ELCOT /
                          Data      SIDCO/
                                Centre       SIPCOT.
                                        units/parks.
 “C” Category
                         *In
                         100%the stamp
                                  case ofduty
                                           private lands, stamp
                                               exemption    will beduty concession
                                                                    given           will belease
                                                                           for purchase/     givenofasland
                                                                                                        100% back ended
                                                                                                           obtained from
 Districts
                         subsidy / SIDCO/
                         ELCOT     (disbursed after
                                             SIPCOT.full investment of Rs.500 crore is achieved) for up to 10 acres for
 “C” Category            Data  Centre
                         *In the  case units/parks.
                                        of private lands, stamp duty concession will be given as 100% back ended
 Districts
                        subsidy (disbursed after full investment of Rs.500 crore is achieved) for up to 10 acres for
                        Data Centre units/parks.
This incentive shall have to be refunded if the Data Centre operations ceases or changes its use of land to a non-
Data Centre land use within 10 years from the date of incorporation.
This incentive shall have to be refunded if the Data Centre operations ceases or changes its use of land to a non-
*This will only be available if the private land is leased or purchased within three years before the date of
Data Centre land use within 10 years from the date of incorporation.
incorporation or commencement of operations whichever is earlier.
*This will only be available if the private land is leased or purchased within three years before the date of
incorporation or commencement of operations whichever is earlier.

4.3. Land Cost Subsidy
4.3.      Land Cost Subsidy
In Category C districts, Data Centres /parks can avail a 50% subsidy on land cost from ELCOT/SIPCOT/SIDCO. On
private lands procured for Data Centre/parks, 50% subsidy on the cost of land as per guideline value shall be given
In Category C districts, Data Centres /parks can avail a 50% subsidy on land cost from ELCOT/SIPCOT/SIDCO. On
up to an extent of 10 acres and subject to land cost not exceeding 20% of EFA and a cap of Rs.2 crore and with at
private lands procured for Data Centre/parks, 50% subsidy on the cost of land as per guideline value shall be given
least 70% of land being used for Data Centre operations.
up to an extent of 10 acres and subject to land cost not exceeding 20% of EFA and a cap of Rs.2 crore and with at
least 70% of land being used for Data Centre operations.

4.4. MSME sector
4.4. MSME sector
The Government would like to encourage the maintenance of sophisticated hardware and auxiliary services required
by Data Centre to involve the Participation of Service Sector local MSMEs. Therefore, the Government will take
The Government would like to encourage the maintenance of sophisticated hardware and auxiliary services required
special initiatives to develop an MSME - Centric service ecosystem for Data Centres. Local MSMEs who are already
by Data Centre to involve the Participation of Service Sector local MSMEs. Therefore, the Government will take
in the business of facility management and Hardware Maintenance will be specially trained to suit the requirement of
special initiatives to develop an MSME - Centric service ecosystem for Data Centres. Local MSMEs who are already
Data Centres. Data Centres that use the services of Tamil Nadu based MSMEs for on - site services as sub -
in the business of facility management and Hardware Maintenance will be specially trained to suit the requirement of
contractors to the Facility Manager will be reimbursed 10% of the remuneration paid to them, subject to a maximum
Data Centres. Data Centres that use the services of Tamil Nadu based MSMEs for on - site services as sub -
of Rs.10 lakhs per Data Centre. This subsidy shall be applicable only for the first two years of operation.
contractors to the Facility Manager will be reimbursed 10% of the remuneration paid to them, subject to a maximum
of Rs.10 lakhs per Data Centre. This subsidy shall be applicable only for the first two years of operation.




       1 The definition of District Categories shall be as per Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021.


                                                                                                                                16
 16    1 The definition of District Categories shall be as per Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021.


                                                                                                                                16
 IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




4.5. Training Incentive
A training subsidy of up to Rs.10,000/- per person trained per month (for up to 6 months) per Data Centre unit shall
be provided, capped at Rs.1 Crore per Data Centre for the duration of the policy period.




4.6. Structured Package of Assistance
For projects of strategic importance, a structured package of assistance would be provided for investments greater
than EFA of Rs. 2000 crore on a case-to-case basis. Edge Data Centre units where the technology is still maturing,
will be considered for structured package of assistance but the onus of justifying it to be an edge Data Centre will be
on the investor and decision will be on a case-to-case basis solely at the discretion of the Government.




                                                                                                                          17

                                                                                                                           17
    IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




5. Building Regulations
Data Centres are critical infrastructure facilities demanding extensive planning to prevent interruptions and are
significantly different from other buildings. Concepts of scalability, physical capacity, power, connectivity, design,
standard and security are crucial aspects of developing and while building Data Centres. To improve spatial
efficiency and optimise operational costs, tailor-made building regulations shall be offered through the creation of a
separate category for Data Centres under the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019.


These shall include:
•    Floor Space Index (FSI) provided to IT/ ITeS developments as per Tamil Nadu Combined Development Building
     Rules (TNCDBR), 2019 shall be extended to Data Centre parks/units.
•    Car Parking for Data Centres shall be considered as 1 Parking Space per 100 Square meters of designated
     office area as a threshold requirement in the approved Plan (OR) 1 Parking Space per 300 square meters of total
     Built-up Area at the option of the developer.
•    Multi-level Diesel Generator Stacking structure up to G + 5 shall be permissible, subject to necessary
     clearances and orders of the Government in this regard.
•    Open Space Reservation (OSR) area and internal roads will be handed over to the local body, but the same
     would be maintained by the Data Centre developer only as OSR area or road without any kind of development in
     the OSR land except as a green space (park).
•    Floor to Ceiling Height: There will be no restriction on floor to ceiling height (for single floor) subject to there
     being no mezzanine floor and compliance with overall height regulations, suitable structural and fire safety
     regulations.
•    Boundary walls: The maximum permissible height of boundary walls as per the TNCDBR 2019 is 2.0m. Height
     of boundary wall up to 3.6 meters with 600 mm fencing (Y or spherical) on top of that boundary wall can be
     considered in specific cases for those sides of the site where the adjoining plot is an industry or has a building on
     stilts.
•    Installation of Chillers on roof top shall be permitted without inclusion in FSI, subject to structural safety and
     TNCDBR, 2019.
•    Data Centre units/parks zoning: Selection of land parcels for Data Centres is dependent on factors such as
     availability of dense fibre networks, seismically safe zones, availability of uninterrupted Electricity and Water
     Supply etc. In view of the above, setting up of Data Centres would be permitted in any land zone including
     Commercial, Industrial and Institutional.




    18

                                                                                                                             18
    IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




•    Data Centre/parks in Commercial Buildings shall be permitted provided they satisfy TNCDBR, 2019. Partially
     occupied Leased commercial buildings and related infrastructure shall be qualified as Data Centre buildings on a
     case-to-case basis but they will not be extended the building incentives as available in section 4 of this policy.
•    Windows in Data Centre part of building: The Data Centre building shall be allowed to install minimum
     number of windows (5% of building facade), subject to compliance with building and fire safety regulations.
•    Green Building Data Centres: Data Centre Units undertaking green and sustainable initiatives as listed below
     shall be eligible for a 25% subsidy on cost of undertaking such initiatives, subject to an upper limit of Rs. 5 Crore.

     i. Green Buildings which obtain green rating under the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC/LEED Certification)
     ii. Green Buildings which obtain green rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) systems




                                                                                                                              19

                                                                                                                               19
6. Implementation of the Policy
ELCOT shall be the State level nodal agency for the
administration of the Data Centre Policy. Investment
promotion for Data Centre policy shall be done by
Guidance and MOUs will be signed by Guidance.
Sanction of default incentives as per the policy:
ELCOT shall sanction incentives which are available by
default under this policy.
Sanction of Structured package of incentives under
the policy: To consider and sanction structured
incentives under this policy, the Inter-Departmental
Committee constituted for the implementation of the
Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy, 2021 shall serve as a
recommendatory body to the Cabinet for sanction of
incentives. Principal Secretary, Information Technology
(IT) Department shall be a member of the IDC.
GUIDANCE shall send the proposal for IDC in
consultation with ELCOT.
Disbursement of Incentives: Disbursement of fiscal
incentives shall be done through the established
mechanism of SIPCOT.




                                                          20
 IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




Appendix A - Eligible Fixed Assets
“Eligible Fixed Assets” or “EFA” shall mean and include land (including development costs such as fencing,
construction of internal roads and other basic infrastructure facilities); permanent buildings; plants, indigenous
machinery & equipment, imported equipment, computer/networking/cabling equipment, material handling equipment
(like forklifts, cranes, etc); tools, dies, moulds, jigs and fixtures and similar production tools owned and used within
the plant or elsewhere within Tamil Nadu; appliances; electrical installations; pollution control, quality control and
laboratory equipment; fixtures, tubes, pipes, fittings and storage tanks, to the extent paid for by the project.


The terms “Eligible Fixed Assets”/ “EFA” shall also mean and include waste treatment facilities, transformers,
generators, captive power plants and other supportive facilities installed for use in the premises and includes
installation charges.


EFA shall include investment in R&D such as land, building, plant and machinery. Unless otherwise specified, EFA
shall exclude intangible assets including, without limitation, Intellectual Property rights and goodwill.


All fixed assets should have been paid for and should be owned or leased by the project, provided that the duration
of such lease shall be:

a) For land and building, no less than 10 years; and
b) For all other fixed assets – no less than half the estimated residual lifetime of the asset (where such residual
   lifetime shall be estimated by a licensed engineer, in the manner that may be specified by the Government of
   Tamil Nadu, from time to time).

Fixed assets that are leased shall be valued at the Net Present Value of said assets, as on the date of execution of
the lease deed or date of MoU (if applicable), whichever is later, using a discount rate of 10%, or as may be notified
from time to time, provided that the lease is executed within the investment period. All fixed assets (except tools,
dies, moulds, jigs and fixtures and similar production tools) should be used and installed only within the Project Site.



Second-hand Machinery
No more than 20% of the total Eligible Fixed Assets of a project shall consist of indigenous second-hand machinery
purchased by the unit/project. To decide the percentage of second-hand machinery that will constitute Eligible Fixed
Assets, the market value of such second-hand machinery, shall be as certified by an independent
chartered/licensed engineer, chartered accountant, or such other authority or person authorised by the Government
of Tamil Nadu from time to time.



                                                                                                                           21

                                                                                                                            21
 IT DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




This is subject to the condition that such indigenous second-hand machinery shall have a minimum residual life of
10 years (as certified by the independent chartered/licensed engineer, chartered accountant, or such other authority
or person authorised by the Government of Tamil Nadu from time to time).


In the case of imported machinery, all imported second-hand plant, machinery and equipment will be considered as
new indigenous machinery, if it is imported directly by the unit/project. 100% of the value of imported plant,
machinery and equipment shall be allowed under Eligible Fixed Assets. This value of imported plant, machinery and
equipment shall include custom duty and insurance paid, freight charges from the port of arrival till destination, and
installation charges in addition to the CIF value of such plant & machinery, provided that the freight and installation
charges would be limited to 10% of the basic price.



Captive Power Plants
Up to 20% of EFA will be allowed for the FRESH Investment made in captive power plants (including windmills /
solar farms), provided that no less than 50% of power so generated is for captive consumption.




 22

                                                                                                                          22
For information and enquiries:
Principal Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu,
Information Technology Department
Secretariat, Chennai 600 009 Tamil Nadu, India
Tel: 91- 44- 25670783 E mail: secyit@tn.nic.in




                                                   23
                                                        23
