   GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




           TAMIL NADU
          ETHANOL
          BLENDING
           POLICY
              2023




INDUSTRIES, INVESTMENT PROMOTION
    & COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

   GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
Contents
1. Preamble                                1



2. Objectives                              4



3. Sustainable Agriculture Interventions   6



4. Regulatory Framework                    10



5. Policy Implementation                   14


Abbreviations

Definitions
1. Preamble
1.1. Introduction
Tamil Nadu is the automotive manufacturing capital of India with the largest number of factories and out-
put nationally. Being the highest urbanised state, with close to 50% of the population residing in urban
areas, Tamil Nadu is also a major automobile market, with the 3rd largest vehicular population in India.
Coupled with the fact that the State has state-of-the-art advanced road and freight corridor network sys-
tems, this positions Tamil Nadu amongst the highest consumers of petrol in India, which is predominantly
imported. The State’s petrol requirement is estimated to increase to 474 crore litres by FY 2024-25. With
transportation sector accounting for nearly one-fourth of GHG emissions, and considering the projected
robust growth of the State’s vehicular fleet, there is an immediate need to transition to alternate cost-ef-
fective green fuel that mitigates climate change.


Tamil Nadu accords the highest of importance to sustainable industrial development that upholds the
right balance between economic development and environmental protection. The State is a leader in
installed renewable energy capacity and more than 50% of its power requirement is serviced through
renewable energy. With a clear vision of achieving a $1 trillion economy by 2030 underpinned by green
technologies, Tamil Nadu is actively promoting adoption of EVs and manufacturing of green hydrogen
manufacturing as alternative green fuel solutions.


In order to address environmental concerns from the transportation sector, reduce import dependency
and boost the agriculture sector, the Government of India launched the Ethanol Blended Petrol (EBP)
Program in 2003 with a target of supply of 5% ethanol blended petrol and has now reset its target, to
achieve 20% blending of ethanol in petrol by 2025 through the National Biofuels Policy. Presently, the
market for ethanol in India is driven by primarily by demand for disinfectants, beverages and other
industrial applications and the Indian ethanol market is estimated to reach $ 5.64 billion (~ Rs.40,593
crores) by 2027. In order to achieve the 20% blending target indigenously, India has the opportunity to
create production capacity of 900 crore litres of bioethanol from various sources.


Tamil Nadu has a natural advantage with a total cropped area of ~ 6.63 million hectares from a diversified
range of crops such as sugarcane, paddy, maize, tapioca, and sweet sorghum. Further, the coverage of
irrigated area is higher than the national average. The EBP Program provides an opportunity for Tamil
Nadu to maximise its value addition to the State’s natural resources by promoting indigenous ethanol
production based on existing locally available agrocentric resources, expansion of these resources as well
as utilisation of surplus and damaged produce.


The Tamil Nadu Ethanol Blending Policy seeks to support indigenous production of fuel grade ethanol
under the EBP Program. Given the fluctuations in crude oil prices, it is prudent for pioneer States like
Tamil Nadu to augment biofuel production within the State using indigenous sources which could partly
insulate the import price shocks, address the pollution concerns and enhance agricultural output and its
utilisation.




                                                                                                          1
1.2. Advantage Tamil Nadu
i.      Growing demand for petrol and Increasing Refining Capacity
        In terms of consumption of Motor Spirit (MS) petrol, Tamil Nadu stands third after Uttar Pradesh and
        Maharashtra with about 2.7 million metric tonnes (~ 3.8 billion litres) consumption during FY 2021-221.
        Considering the average growth rate of 7% in the last few years (FY 2017-18 to FY 2019-20), the demand
        or MS petrol during FY 2024-25 is estimated to be 3.3 million metric tonnes (4.6 billion litres). To achieve
        the blending target of 20%, the fuel grade ethanol requirement works out to be 0.9 billion litres2 Chennai
        Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL), formerly known as Madras Refineries Limited (MRL), has an
        installed refining capacity of 10.5 million metric tonnes in Manali (near Chennai) and the proposed
        augmentation at CPCL Cauvery Basin is 1 million metric tonne. Further, considering a moderate share
        of demand from neighbouring States, Tamil Nadu offers an opportunity for manufacturing 1.3 billion
        litres by 2025 to service the regional demand.


ii. Ethanol Production Capacity & Demand in Tamil Nadu
        Tamil Nadu currently has installed plant capacity of 664 KLPD specifically to produce fuel grade
        ethanol under the EBP, with a further 160 KLPD capacity to be developed, in pipeline. The existing
        plants and immediate pipeline of projects are molasses based, and several investors have expressed
        interest to invest and establish standalone grain-based ethanol plants.


iii. Scope of 1st Generation – 4th Generation Biofuels
        The National Biofuels Policy has charted out a plan to promote 1st and 2nd generation feedstock. With an
        objective to augment ethanol supplies, the Government has allowed procurement of ethanol produced
        from other non-food feedstock besides molasses, like cellulosic and lignocellulosic materials including
        petrochemical route. Oil PSUs have planned to establish 2G ethanol bio-refineries in various parts of
        the country. Tamil Nadu, being an industrial hub with a focus on circular economy for sustainable
        industrial development, is an ideal destination for use of 4th generation feedstock like industrial waste.


iv. Surplus feedstock availability with the State
        Sugarcane and Sweet Sorghum are the major sugar crops grown in the State. During FY 2021-21,
        sugarcane was cultivated in 1.27 lakh hectares with a production of 133 lakh metric tonnes.

        Sweet Sorghum is a principal dryland crop which is popular with farmers due to assured grains and
        fodder yields for low-input cultivation. Sweet sorghum holds a great potential as a field crop for ethanol
        production throughout the world in view of the high yield compared to grains, sugar, lignocellulosic
        biomass. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has carried out extensive crop improvement research
        on Sweet Sorghum including five hybrids and 44 varieties in sorghum. Maize is the most versatile
        crop grown in the State having wider adaptability under varied agro-climatic conditions and is grown
        to produce a large variety of food and non-food products. With a production area of about 4 lakh
        hectares, Maize production from the State constituted ~8% of the production in India . The State has
        an advantage in matching the agricultural production to its manufacturing prowess. Tapioca (cassava)
        is grown in an area of 91,506 hectares in the State.




Petroleum Planning & Analysis, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas
1


Vide letter from Joint Secretary (Sugar & Admin) dated 14th January 2021
2



    2
1.3. Need for Policy
The State recognises the opportunity under EBP and the following factors reflect the aspirations and
motivations of the State for encouraging EBP:

i.      Augmenting indigenous bioethanol production capacity from agri-resources to encourage revival of
        the sugar industry and diversification to other food grains.

ii. Simplifying/streamlining regulatory challenges by creation of institutional mechanism to support
        investors with faster clearances and facilitate assured procurement.

iii. Ensuring efficient utilisation and capacity augmentation of agri-resources that does not compromise
        on food security and is aligned with sustainable land use.

1.4. Benefits of EBP
The EBP strives to address environmental concerns, reduce import dependency and provide a boost
to agriculture sector. It also offers direct benefits to farmers and consumers.

i.      Improved Farmer Income
        In the surplus season Ethanol production and supply under Ethanol Blended Programme improves
        liquidity position of sugar mills and enables them to clear the crop price arrears of farmers. This offers
        an opportunity for increased income for both sugarcane farmers and farmers engaged in cultivation
        of grains such as maize that are also eligible feedstock for Ethanol Blending through improved price
        realisation for EBP. Farmers can also increase araea under cultivation and productivity for crops such
        as maize to meet the requirements for the EBP. The by-product during grain based ethanol produc-
        tion such as Distilleries Wet Grain Soluble (DWGS) and Distilleries Dried Grain Soluble (DDGS) is used
        as feed for cattle & other livestock.

ii. Superior Fuel Quality
        Ethanol is considered a better blend component for petrol due to higher octane number of 108.5,
        which helps in improved engine power and performance. It also helps in significantly reducing other
        pollutants (Carbon Monoxide, Sulphur Oxide, Nitrogen Oxides, Hydrocarbon and Particulate Matter)
        in comparison to fossil fuels. Specifically, bio ethanol produced from agri-based feedstocks can be at-
        tributed to reduction in GHG emissions in comparison to fossil fuels.




3
    Agri Exchange Portal, Agricultural & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority, GoI
                                                                                                                3
2. Objectives
2.1. Vision
•       To promote Tamil Nadu as a green economy and investment hub for alternate cost-effective green
        fuel.

2.2. Mission
        Improve farmer income through price realisation and expansion in opportunities due to ethanol 		
        blending.
        Revive the sugar industry in Tamil Nadu through improved utilisation of existing mills and diversifi-
        cation to dual feedstock.
        Enhance import substitution through indigenous sourcing and production of fuel grade ethanol.
        Enable capacity creation and diversification of grain-based distilleries.
        Mitigate climate change risks and support diversification through reduction in air pollution arising
        from fossil fuels.


2.3. Goals
The Government of Tamil Nadu has set the following targets for the policy term:
•       To be self-sufficient and meet the estimated Ethanol blending requirement of 130 crore litres.
•       To attract investments worth Rs. 5000 crore in molasses/grain-based Ethanol production capacity
        in the State.

2.4. Scope of the Policy
Tamil Nadu Ethanol Blending Program shall apply to the following eligible units and feedstock, subject to
other conditions.
2.4.1. Eligible Units
Eligible units shall include the following units which provide fuel-grade ethanol:
i.      New grain-based distilleries or expansion of existing grain-based distilleries
ii.     New molasses and sugar/sugar syrup-based distilleries or expansion of existing distilleries, whether
        attached to sugar mills or standalone distilleries
iii. New dual feed distilleries or expansion of existing dual feed distilleries – of which one feed shall be
        sourced from molasses
iv. Conversion of existing molasses-based distilleries to dual feed; and also, to convert grain-based
        distilleries to dual feed




    4
2.4.2. Eligible Feedstock
The feedstock to be used by the Eligible Units for the EBP Programme shall include:
i.     C & B- Heavy Molasses,
ii.    Sugarcane juice,
iii.   Sugar,
iv.    Sugar syrup,
v.     Biomass in form of grasses,
vi.    Agriculture residues (rice straw, cotton stalk, corn cobs, saw dust, bagasse etc.),
vii. Sugar containing materials like sugar beet, sweet sorghum, etc.
viii. Starch containing materials such as corn (maize), cassava (tapioca), sorghum, rotten potatoes,
ix.    Agro food / pulp industry waste,
x.     Damaged Rice unfit for distribution under the Public Distribution System as certified by Tamil Nadu
       Civil Supplies Corporation/procured from FCI,
xi.    Damaged food grains (except rice and 2.4.2.x above) unfit for human consumption,
xii. Food grains during surplus phase as declared by National Biofuel Coordination Committee (NBCC),
xiii. Industrial waste (which contains fermentable sugar),
xiv. Algal feedstock and seaweeds,
xv. Any other feedstock as may be notified by NBCC or the Government of Tamil Nadu from time to time.


2.4.3. Other Conditions
i.     Ethanol produced from such eligible units and sold to any buyers other than OMCs or any other
       purposes other than fuel blending under the EBP Programme shall be considered ineligible under
       this policy.
ii.    As sugar mills, edible oil industries, rice, wheat and flour mills, alcoholic beverages, and fertiliser
       and animal feed manufacture feature in the Annexure I (List of Industries Ineligible for Incentives)
       of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021 (TNIP 2021), and are excluded from the scope of the indus
       trial policy (Clause 1.3 TNIP 2021); the Eligible Units shall be covered only under this Policy and shall
       not be covered under the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021.




                                                                                                                   5
3. Sustainable Agriculture
Interventions
Agriculture, with its allied sectors, is the largest source of livelihood in Tamil Nadu. More than two-third of
rural households in the State still depend primarily on agriculture for their sustenance, with 93 percent of
farmers being smallholders. The net cropped area in Tamil Nadu constitutes 37.1% of the total geograph-
ical area of the State. In 2020-21, at current prices, agriculture, contributed to 13% of the State’s economy
and registered growth rate of 4.8%.


The State has taken proactive measures to achieve equitable, competitive and sustainable growth in ag-
riculture, increase farmer income and to ensure food security. The Government of Tamil Nadu has intro-
duced various Special and Innovative Agriculture Technological initiatives to augment area, production
and productivity of major crops:


•       With    an   objective   to   use   the   available   agricultural    lands    for   sustainable   development
        of agriculture and to ensure that the agricultural activities are not unduly constrained
        by    non-agricultural   use   or   other    development,      the     Tamil    Nadu    Protected    Agricultur-
        al Zone Development Act, 2020 has been notified.                     Under this Act, Thanjavur, Thiruvarur,
        Nagapattinam, Mayiladutharai and parts of Cuddalore (Kattumannarkoil, Melbhuvanagiri, Paran-
        gipettai, Keerapalayam and Kumaratchi) and Pudukottai (Aranthangi, Avudaiyarkoil, Manamelku-
        di, Thiruvarankulam and Karambakudi) districts have been listed as Protected Agricultural Zones.


•       The State has allocated 6.5% of its total expenditure towards agriculture and allied ac-
        tivities.    This is higher than the average allocation for agriculture by states (6.2%). Un-
        der the budget provision 2022-23, Rs.1,760 crores has been allocated towards crop insur-
        ance and Rs.487 crores has been allocated towards agricultural research and education.


•       The Government of Tamil Nadu is taking concerted efforts to boost farmers’ income and to increase
        productivity of crops through efficient usage of water. To supplement this, the micro-irrigation
        scheme is being implemented in the State to bring more area under cultivation and enhance pro-
        duction by judicious use of water. Also, to encourage the farming community 100% subsidy is provid-
        ed to small/marginal farmers and 75% for other farmers for installation of micro irrigation schemes.


Presently, the ethanol production in the State is primarily from Sugarcane (molasses based) distilleries.
Under the Ethanol Blending Policy, the State shall encourage diversification of feedstock to encourage
low water consuming and versatile crops like Maize, Sorghum and Tapioca. Further, the State shall come
up with appropriate guidelines to utilize damaged rice for Ethanol production. The important sources of
feedstock for ethanol production and the measures to optimise their availability are discussed herein.




    6
3.1. Optimising Availability of Feedstock
3.1.1. Sugarcane
Sugarcane is a major commercial crop cultivated in an area of 1.56 lakh Ha with a production of 161 lakh
metric tonnes in 36 districts of Tamil Nadu. Owing to the initiatives taken by State Government under
National Food Security Mission and Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY), sugarcane area cov-
erage has increased by 30% compared to FY 2020-21.


Tamil Nadu has 42 sugar mills with overall cane crushing capacity of 1.23 lakh tonnes per day. On an aver-
age, during the last two decades, sugar production in Tamil Nadu constituted to 9% of overall sugar pro-
duction in India. Tamil Nadu Sugar Corporation Limited (TASCO Ltd), a public sector undertaking of the
State operates two sugar mills at Kurungulam, Thanjavur District and Pandiarajapuram, Madurai District.
Perambalur Sugar Mills Ltd., was established as a subsidiary of TASCO Ltd. The State has 23 sugar indus-
tries set up by private players and 16 mills set up by State level cooperatives.


From a peak of 254 lakh tonnes of cane crushed from 43 factories with a capacity utilisation of 73% in FY
2011-12, the capacity utilization fell to 44% with 80 lakh tonnes crushed from 37 factories in the State. The
capacity utilization has remained below 60% over the past few years due to multiple reasons such as re-
duction in the crop production area in the State, decline in the recovery rate from 9.5% to 8.5% impacting
the production costs. The EBP programme presents an opportunity for reviving the sugar industry in the
State by improving the capacity utilization of the existing plants. The Government of Tamil Nadu under
the EBP program shall encourage sugar industries to set up molasses-based Ethanol plants and improve
capacity utilization.


3.1.2.   Damaged rice unfit for human consumption
The State Government is also steadfast in increasing the production of rice through promoting high yield-
ing varieties in different agro-climatic zones, water conservation and labour-saving techniques, conjunc-
tive use of water through direct sowing and providing awards to encourage the farmers for adoption of
System of Rice Intensification (SRI) technology and for cultivation of traditional varieties.


With a production of 5.54 metric tonnes of rice FY 2018-19, the State accounted for 5.5% of rice production
in India and recorded phenomenal yield (3,748 kilo grams per hectare), the second highest yield in India,
after Punjab. The Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) has 21 Modern Rice Mills with a monthly
hulling capacity of 47000 MT. TNCSC periodically auctions damaged rice due to insect/moisture/heat/dis-
coloration. The damaged rice unfit for human consumption available with TNCSC shall be made available
to fuel grade ethanol producers through a suitable mechanism.
Indian Council of Agricultural Research
4




                                                                                                          7
3.1.3.   Maize
Production of ethanol using maize as the base is considered more profitable owing to low water con-
sumption and low capital costs to set up dry mills. Further, distilleries can sell the protein rich by product
to poultries. United States, which is the largest producer of ethanol uses maize as the major source of feed
stock for ethanol production.


In view of high productivity, relatively low water usage and cost of cultivation, maize has emerged as a
favourite crop in the State. Tamil Nadu ranks first in terms of productivity with a yield of 6,551 kilograms/
hectare during FY 2018-19 . Over the last two decades, the area under cultivation for maize in the State has
increased from 0.8 lakh hectares during 2000-01 to 3.9 lakh hectares during 2018-19 and production of 25
lakh tones which constituted 9.2% of overall production from India.


The State shall encourage production of maize by increasing the land for maize cultivation from 4 lakh
hectares to around 6 lakh hectares considering the opportunity from EBP. Further, the State shall under-
take measures to improve productivity in the areas under cultivation by optimising planting density and
irrigation depth, and adopting sustainable innovative practices.


3.1.4.   Cassava (Tapioca)
Tapioca is an important tropical tuber crop in India. Tapioca starch is obtained from the roots of Cassava
plant. Tamil Nadu accounts for about 80 per cent of the total acreage of the crop in India. In Tamil Nadu,
tapioca is cultivated in an area of 91,506 hectares with the production of 38.93 lakh metric tonnes. It is
mainly cultivated in Salem, Namakkal, Erode, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Dharmapuri and Kanyakumari dis-
tricts of Tamil Nadu. Tapioca finds application as a raw material for starch extraction in India.


As per ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI), cassava (tapioca) is a promising raw material
for bioethanol production to meet India’s Ethanol Blending Petrol (EBP) programme target of 2025. Tapi-
oca with its high starch content and ability to grow under low management conditions has been globally
recognised as a potential feedstock for bioethanol production.


3.1.5.   Sweet Sorghum
As a principal crop in drylands, Sweet Sorghum is popular with farmers due to assured grains and fodder
yields for low-input cultivation under harsh weather, especially in drought. The crop has higher starch
compared to maize and it is grown in both kharif and rabi seasons. It is estimated that about 27% of the
annually produced crop is wasted due to grain blackening following unseasonal rains which makes the
grain not suitable for human or animal consumption. By utilising this for EBP, the returns to farmers could
increase. The State shall undertake knowledge dissemination to encourage farmers to cultivate sweet
sorghum.




Directorate of Economics & Statistics, DAC&FW
5


    8
3.2. Sustainable Land Use & Planning
With effective regional land use planning, over the past 15 years, the State has witnessed visible improve-
ments in agricultural productivity, reduction in wasteland, expansion of irrigation coverage, and expan-
sion of forest and tree cover. The Draft Tamil Nadu State Land Use (Planning) Policy proposes to clearly
identify and demarcate Rural and Agricultural Zones as part of Regional and Sub Regional Plans. The draft
policy proposes formulating and reviewing State Spatial Strategy Plan and coordinating inter-sectoral
interactions and priorities. With Ethanol blending and indigenous sourcing of feedstock gaining strategic
importance, the Regional and Sub Regional Plans/State level Strategy Plans shall have a special focus on
demarcating land bearing in mind, the requirements for EBP.




                                                                                                         9
4. Regulatory Framework
4.1. Clearances and Approvals from GoI/GoTN
Given the aspects of safety and social sensitivity of ethanol, there are specific statutory clearances re-
quired from GoI and the Government of Tamil Nadu. With a view to encourage ethanol production from
agri-resources, the Government of India has undertaken various measures to significantly reduce the
compliance burden of investors who wish to set up ethanol plants under the EBP Programme. Investors
can obtain almost all the requisite standard clearances from the State Government within 30 days.


4.1.1.   Clearances/Approvals from Government of Tamil Nadu
These clearances/approvals from Government of Tamil Nadu include Building approval from Town Pan-
chayat (or) Village Panchayat approval, Permission from Fire and Rescue Department, Boilers License,
Approval of Chief Inspector of Factories, Consent to Operate (CTO) from the Pollution Control Board, and
Environmental Clearance from State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) for <100 KLPD
molasses based ethanol plant. The CTO should clearly mention production of Absolute Alcohol or ENA (Ex-
tra Neutral Alcohol) or SDS (Special Denatured Spirit) or Alcohol or RS (Rectified Spirit) or Spirit or Ethanol
or Denatured Anhydrous Ethanol). The Government of Tamil Nadu has provided specific relaxations to the
sugar mills/distillery units to be located within 1 km /5 km of water bodies for obtaining a CTO (see Box 1).


All these clearances except the EC are currently available on the Tamil Nadu Single Window Portal. As part
of the Ease of Doing Business initiatives, the new Single Window Portal (TNSWP) shall provide more than
200 services (including sector specific and sector-agnostic clearances) across 38 departments, making
the process completely faceless, contactless, and paperless. The Environment Clearance issued by the
SEIAA will be integrated with TNSWP. Further, the validity of the CTO provided by TNPCB is now being
provided for a longer horizon. Renewal of CTO shall have a validity period of 5 / 10 / 14 years for Red / Orange
/ Green category industries respectively subject to the remittance of the total consent fee for the entire
period in advance or have a shorter validity period restricted according to the amount of fees remitted.




10
Box Item 1
Relaxations offered to Sugar Industry in Tamil Nadu
In order to encourage expansion/green field ethanol plants in the State, the Government of Tamil
Nadu has relaxed the requirements under G.O.(Ms.) No. 213, Environment and Forests Department,
dated 30.03.1989 and G.O.(Ms). No. 127, Environment and Forests Department dated 08.05.1998. TNP-
CB shall give Consent to Establish to all those applicants intending to set up new ethanol production
unit within existing Sugar mills/distillery units located within 1 km/5 km from water bodies subject to
achieving ZLD with reject management and other conditions of TNPCB – vide G.O.(Ms). No.82 Environ-
ment, Climate Change and Forest (EC.3) Department dated 13.10.2021.


Environment Clearance Procedures Relaxed for Distillery and Sugar Mills going in for expansion
under the Ethanol Blended Petrol Program
As per the EIA notification of 2006 (as amended by S.O.No.1960 E dated 13-06-2019), Molasses based
Distilleries with capacities less than or equal to 100 KLD and Non-Molasses Based Distilleries with ca-
pacities less than or equal to 200 KLD (Schedule 5 (g), Category B) shall be considered for Environ-
mental Clearance by the State Level Environmental Impact Assessment Authority through the State
Expert Appraisal Committee (SEAC) and for capacities (Schedule 5 (g), Category A) beyond this by the
MoEF&CC, Govt. of India through the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC).


Waiver of EC for incidental increase in Ethanol Production
As per MoEF&CC Office Memorandum F.No. 22-33/2019-IA.III dated 5th November 2019, incidental in-
crease in production of Ethanol due to use of B-heavy Molasses/Sugar cane Juice/ Sugar Syrup/ Sugar
without any increase in the total pollution load in the existing distilleries or sugar mills for which en-
vironmental clearance was already granted shall be considered under para 7(i1)(a) of EIA Notification
and do not require Environmental Clearance.


Special Provision in EIA for Grain based Ethanol
As per the MoEF&CC Notification S.O. 2339(E), dated 16th June, 2021, a special provision was made in
the EIA Notification, 2006-(Schedule 5 (ga), Category B2), wherein for all applications for EC prior to
31.03.2024 made for Grain based distilleries with Zero Liquid Discharge producing ethanol; solely to be
used for Ethanol Blended Petrol Programme of the Government of India shall be considered under B2
Category and appraised at Central Level by Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) with condition that the
project proponent shall file a notarized affidavit that the ethanol produced from the proposed project
shall be used completely for the EBP Programme.


The project proponent is required to obtain a certificate of “no increase in the pollution load” from the
environmental auditors or reputed institutions, to be empanelled by the State Pollution Control Board
or Central Pollution Control Board or Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.




                                                                                                         11
4.1.2.       Clearances/Approvals from Government of India
The clearances from Government of India include valid “Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization
(PESO)” license for storage of class A products and Environmental Clearance from SEIAA for >100 KLPD
molasses-based ethanol plant. Investors can directly upload the Project Proposals in Parivesh to apply
for the Environment Clearance. Further, investors can also apply for interest subvention schemes under
DFPD on the National Single Window Portal. NSWS has integrated with the TNSWP, and the investors can
apply for the clearances on either portal.


4.2. Clarification on Applicability of State Regulations
While the market for ethanol grows and regulatory frameworks have been simplified with efforts from
the Government of India and the Government of Tamil Nadu, there is regulatory uncertainty on the way
forward. In this context, the following clarifications are offered on regulations under the State purview:

i. Since the amendment in the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act 1951 in 2016, States can
         legislate, control and/or levy taxes and duties on liquor meant for human consumption only. Other
         than that, liquor which is not meant for human consumption, i.e., denatured ethanol will be controlled/
         legislated etc. by Government of India. Hence (denatured) Ethanol production for the purpose of
         Ethanol Blending Programme will not require any license from the Commissionerate of Prohibition &
         Excise/Home Department, Government of Tamil Nadu.

ii. The grant or issue of such licenses permits or other documents and charging/levying of fees, if any,
         etc. shall be under the exclusive control of the Government of India (as specified in Section 4.2.1).
         However, the procedures for interstate movement of Ethanol shall be monitored by Commissionerate
         of Prohibition & Excise/Home Department, Government of Tamil Nadu.

iii. No license is required from the Commissionerate of Prohibition & Excise/Home Department,
         Government of Tamil Nadu under the Prohibition & Excise Act for Ethanol production for Ethanol
         Blending Programme. It is clarified that for production of Ethanol under EBP, Eligible Units shall be
         exempt from obtaining clearances such as DL2 (For possession and use of Denatured Spirit / Methyl
         Alcohol (Methanol) in the manufacture of specified commodities other than Varnish), RL 1,2,3&4
         (possession and sale, possession and use of Rectified Spirit and Absolute Alcohol).

iv. Eligible Units shall be permitted to import /purchase eligible feedstock from other states/countries
         subject to following conditions:
             a. molasses subject to obtaining the necessary (ML) permit from Prohibition & Excise Department.
             b. damaged rice shall be permitted only if it is procured from FCI.

v. The existing mechanism for certification of Ethanol produced from sugarcane juice and ethanol
         produced from B-heavy molasses and Syrup/sugar as per the guidelines circulated to all distillery
         officers in Tamil Nadu (vide letter No. P&E 3(1)/9798/2014 dated 21.09.2021) shall apply, till the revised
         mechanism, if any, is issued by DFPD at a later date.




https://parivesh.nic.in/
6


https://www.nsws.gov.in
7



    12
vi.   Ethanol production units using eligible feedstock such as C - Heavy Molasses, Biomass in form
      of grasses, Agriculture residues (rice straw, cotton stalk, corn cobs, saw dust, bagasse etc.), Sugar
      containing materials like sugar beet, sweet sorghum, etc., Starch containing materials such as Maize
      (corn), cassava (tapioca), sorghum, rotten potatoes, agro food / pulp industry waste, etc., Industrial
      waste which contains fermentable sugar, algal feedstock/seaweed etc., and any other feedstock as
      may be notified by NBCC or the Government of Tamil Nadu, from time to time, shall be able to supply
      to OMCs under the EBP, subject to tender conditions. It is clarified that Ethanol manufactured for the
      Ethanol Blending Program solely from eligible feedstock other than B-heavy molasses and Syrup/
      sugar (including food grains) shall not require excise licenses/clearances from the Commissionerate
      of Prohibition & Excise or Home Department, Government of Tamil Nadu.

vii. In adaptation of the guidelines issued by DFPD (vide OM No. 4/1/2018 – (BP&E)(Part-I) dated 11.11.2022),
      the ethanol produced through different routes i.e., from grains such as maize, damaged rice (unfit for
      distribution under the PDS as certified by TNCSC) damaged food grains (except rice), is to be certified
      by the concerned Prohibition & Excise Department with unique serial no. for proper identification.
      Such certificate for grains shall clearly indicate the type of grain used i.e. maize, damaged rice
      (unfit for distribution under the PDS as certified by TNCSC) damaged food grains (except rice). The
      Commissioner, Prohibition and Excise shall appoint excise officers and other functionaries as she/he
      thinks fit for oversight of overall accounts of ethanol produced from all sources and all uses/diversion,
      if any.

viii. The State has stocks of damaged rice unfit for distribution, with the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies
      Corporation (TNCSC) which could be used for grain-based ethanol production. The Government of
      Tamil Nadu shall notify the guidelines for procurement of damaged rice unfit for distribution under
      Public Distribution System for ethanol production under the EBP programme. Only damaged rice
      unfit for distribution under Public Distribution System as certified by Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies
      Corporation and damaged rice procured from FCI shall be permitted for ethanol production under
      the EBP programme.

ix.   To safeguard/avoid misuse of alcohol, the Prohibition & Excise Department shall provide guidelines
      on facilitation services for transportation and logistics for ethanol for EBP.

x.    Fuel grade ethanol for supply to OMC shall attract GST. However, the end product - blended fuel will
      attract VAT. Any change in tax rates, tax structure, change in tax principles, or change in any applicable
      law, as directly applicable to EBP projects, in India/State of Tamil Nadu shall apply to Eligible Units.




                                                                                                                 13
5. Policy Implementation
5.1. Nodal Agency
The Industries, Investment & Commerce Department shall be the nodal agency for implementation of
this Policy. The single window facilitation for ethanol projects under EBP shall be undertaken by Guidance
through its Single Window Portal.


5.2. Project Monitoring and Coordination Cell
Guidance has established a Project Monitoring and Coordination Cell (PMC) to provide end-to-end facil-
itation on information, application and sanction of clearances and approvals. The PMC Cell shall provide
investment facilitation for Eligible Units.



5.3. Operational Guidelines
Ethanol production is not covered under TNIP 2021. A high-level regulatory framework has been provided
in this Policy and detailed operational guidelines/clarifications by the Government will be issued from
time to time.



5.4. Term of Policy
The policy will be valid for a period of 5 years from the date of notification. The Policy may be periodically
revised from time to time.




14
Abbreviations
BPCL		         Bharat Petroleum
CPO-M		        Central Procurement Organisation - Marketing
DFPD		         Department of Food and Public Distribution
ESY		          Ethanol Supply Year
EBP		          Ethanol Blended Petrol
EoI		          Expression of Interest
FCI		          Food Corporation of India
GHG		          Greenhouse Gases
GST		          Goods & Service Tax
GoI		          Government of India
GoTN		         Government of Tamil Nadu
KLPD		         Kilo Litres Per Day
KM		           Kilo Meter
OMC		          Oil Manufacturing Companies
MS Petrol      Motor Spirit Petrol
MoCA		         Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution
NBCC		         National Biofuel Coordination Committee
PDS		          Public Distribution System
SEIAA		        State Environment Impact Assessment Authority
TNCSC		        Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation
TNIP 2021      Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021
TNPCB		        Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board
TNSWP		        Tamil Nadu Single Window Portal



Definitions
Advanced Biofuels
Fuels which are produced from lignocellulosic feedstocks (i.e., agricultural and forestry residues, e.g.,rice &
wheat straw/corn cobs & stover/bagasse, woody biomass), non-food crops (i.e., grasses, algae), or industrial
waste and residue streams, having low CO2 emission or high GHG reduction and do not compete with
food crops for land use. Fuels such as Second Generation (2G) Ethanol, Drop-in fuels, algae based 3G
biofuels, bio-CNG, bio-methanol, Di Methyl Ether (DME) derived from bio-methanol, biohydrogen, drop in
fuels with MSW as the source / feedstock material will qualify as “Advanced Biofuels”.

Bioethanol
Ethanol produced from biomass such as sugar containing materials, like sugar cane, sugar beet, sweet
sorghum etc.; starch containing materials such as corn, cassava, rotten potatoes, algae etc.; and, cellulosic
materials such as bagasse, wood waste, agricultural and forestry residues or other renewable resources
like industrial waste (as defined under the National Biofuels Policy 2018).

Ethanol
Ethanol is a chemical with the molecular formula C2H5OH

Ethanol Blended Petrol/ Blended Fuel
Ethanol blended with Motor Spirit as per percentage specified by the Government as per Bureau of Indi-
an Standards specifications.

Fuel Grade Ethanol
Anhydrous Ethanol for use in automotive fuel as per IS 15464:2004 specifications or revisions thereof.
Fuel Grade Ethanol under EBP programme has Ethanol content more than 99.5% and should meet IS
15464:2004 specifications or revisions thereof. Fuel grade Ethanol also contains denaturants, which 		
makes it unfit for potable purpose. Denaturant is a substance completely miscible in ethyl alcohol and
of such a character that while its addition makes the material or any aqueous dilution of it unpleasant and
unwholesome for potable purposes,
