I
 INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
                           II
III
           Contents


1   Preamble                         1


2   Objectives                       6


3   FinTech Initiatives              7


4   Creating an Enabling Ecosystem   13


5   Funding Support                  17


6   Incentives                       19


7   Governance Mechanism             25


A   Annexures                        27




                                          IV
V
      1          Preamble
1.1. Overview
Tamil Nadu is the second largest economy in India, with a Gross State Domestic
Product (GSDP) of over Rs. 19.02 lakh crore in FY 2020-21 at current prices. The
State’s economy has grown consistently at 10.87% in the last decade. The Services
sector is a significant contributor to the State economy accounting for a 49.4%
share of the GSDP in FY 2020-21. Robust growth across the Services and
Manufacturing sectors has been fundamental to Tamil Nadu’s high per capita
income levels and improved quality of life for residents. Concomitantly, the State’s
per capita income was 94% higher than the national average in FY 2020-21.


In the current context, the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the
traditional operating models of brick-and-mortar businesses including banking &
financial services and has accelerated the adoption of digital alternatives. FinTech
firms which utilise information technology to enhance the delivery of financial
services & products, have benefitted from this shift.


This wave of growth in FinTech is being driven by a mix of startups and large firms -

          Startups providing specific and targeted financial products to tap into
          consumer segments hitherto not serviced by traditional financial
          institutions.

          Large financial institutions increasing their FinTech offerings, through
          the services of firms providing digital infrastructure and/or in-house
          technology solutions to compete with new entrants/products and
          retain market share.

          Large and medium Information Technology firms enhancing their
          current platforms by providing financial services leveraging upon their
          existing consumer relationships and technology experience.

The Government of Tamil Nadu recognises the role of large firms and startups in the
FinTech sector and seeks to encourage and support them through this Policy.




                                                                                     1
1.2. Tamil Nadu’s Legacy as a Financial Hub
Historically, Tamil Nadu has been a pioneer in the financial sector with Chennai
being at the forefront of several financial innovations and initiatives. Chennai is
known for its financial acumen and had established its first bank, The Madras Bank
in 1682 (eventually merged into SBI). The first cooperative bank in India, The Madras
Urban Cooperative Bank was set up in Chennai in 1906. The country’s first private
mutual fund was also set up in Chennai in 1993, subsequent to the Government of
India allowing private players to manage and operate mutual funds. The State has
witnessed the growth of several banks and NBFCs, both in the public and private
sector, including microfinance vehicles such as Chit Funds.

1.3. Inherent Advantages of Tamil Nadu
FinTech firms depend on four key pillars, namely, Domain Knowledge in Finance,
Information Technology, Infrastructure, and Diversified & Inclusive Markets, all of
which are all well established in Tamil Nadu. Today, the financial services sector
contributes nearly 5% to Tamil Nadu’s GSDP and has grown at a Compounded
Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 10.15% in the last decade. The State boasts of the
highest credit-deposit ratio in the country and attracts significant FDI in Banking
Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) services every year.


Information Technology (IT), especially Data Analytics has a strong and
well-developed ecosystem in Tamil Nadu. IT contributed to Rs. 1.39 lakh cr. in exports
and employed 7.4 lakh people during FY 2019-20. There are more than 640 startups
in Software as a Service (SaaS) and Deep Tech (artificial intelligence, robotics, and
block chain) across the State, with a combined revenue of $1 billion and a workforce
of 15,000 employees. Chennai, in particular, is hailed as a SaaS capital as several SaaS
companies are based in the city, including two home-grown unicorns – Zoho and
Freshworks.




                                                                                      2
In addition to domain expertise, FinTech firms require physical as well as IT
infrastructure to grow. Tamil Nadu ranks 1st nationally with 46 operational Special
Economic Zones (SEZ) including 8 ELCOSEZs for IT/Information Technology Enabled
Services (ITeS) firms. The State also has a well-developed IT infrastructure with 6
submarine cable landing stations connecting the State with international
destinations and 14.8 Tbps bandwidth. With such robust IT connectivity
infrastructure, the State is emerging as a major investment destination for data
centres having signed MoUs worth Rs. 18,800 cr. in FY 2019-2020. Tamil Nadu also
offers state-of-the-art-infrastructure with 4 international airports, 2 additional
domestic airports, and 4 large seaports.


Further, 51% of the total banking outlets in Tamil Nadu are concentrated in eight
districts of Chennai, Coimbatore, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Tiruvallur, Tiruchirappalli,
Tirunelveli and Salem, indicating a large addressable market in the State for FinTech
firms. Furthermore, several marquee financial institutions in the world have chosen
Chennai to house their Information Technology and core financial processing
operations. Specifically, on the Information Technology front, the city is home to top
Information Technology services and product companies having significant focus
towards the financial services industry and serve the needs of most of the Fortune
500 companies. Besides, large domestic enterprises and multi-national corporations
(MNC) in the manufacturing sector conduct their core finance, accounting and other
high-end financial processing out of Chennai and other cities in Tamil Nadu. The
State, thus, offers a diversified as well as an inclusive market for the FinTech sector to
grow. FinTech firms could leverage this market to offer solutions to both domestic
and international enterprises.


The sound Financial and IT ecosystem has been aided by the skilled and talented
workforce available in the State. Tamil Nadu has a highly qualified,
productivity-oriented, and English-speaking human resource pool and is home to
several premier institutions such as IIT, IIM, NIT, Anna University, Madras School of
Economics, IFMR, Great Lakes, Loyola Institute of Business Administration, Madras
Institute of Management Studies, Chennai Mathematical Institute, and other public
and private sector institutions. The State contributes nearly a million graduates to
the human resource pool each year and has one of the highest contributions of
graduates and post-graduates in the fields of finance, accounting and related
academic disciplines.


Tamil Nadu has developed capabilities in these four areas over the last few decades.
By leveraging these capabilities and harnessing its immense potential, Tamil Nadu
can grow and develop into a major FinTech hub.
                                                                                        3
1.4. Need for Policy
India has a growing base of internet users, especially in rural areas, who will play a
key role in increasing the internet adoption rate. India stands second in the EY
FinTech Adoption Index rankings, with the adoption of FinTech having accelerated
from 52% in 2017 to 87% in 2019. In the rankings, India stands next to China and is
ahead of other developed countries by a significant margin. As of 2020, India has
over two thousand FinTech firms, of which, 5% are from Tamil Nadu. With its
inherent advantages, Tamil Nadu has an immense potential to grow in this space.


FinTech firms with their user-friendly-based offerings are able to target segments of
the population that are unbanked and otherwise not serviced by traditional financial
institutions. This dovetails with the State’s goal of inclusive development.


Tamil Nadu’s potential for growth in the FinTech sector underlines the need for a
dedicated policy to accelerate FinTech investments and enable nurturing, fostering,
and development of the FinTech ecosystem in the State.


1.5. Scope
This Policy covers firms utilizing Information Technology to drive innovation in the
design and delivery of financial services. It specifically covers firms that widen the
coverage and reach of these services to improve financial inclusion through reliable,
swifter, and cost-effective methods.

This Policy adopts the definition of FinTech as per the Financial Stability Board and
RBI - “technologically enabled financial innovation that could result in new
business models, applications, processes, or products with an associated material
effect on financial markets and institutions and the provision of financial services”.
Firms that are engaged in one or more of the operations under this definition and
listed in Table 1 would be covered under this Policy.




             DEPOSITS,                                  DATA                                  GLOBAL
 PAYMENTS,                                                         EXCHANGES
             LENDING &     MARKET       INVESTMENT    ANALYTICS                              CAPABILITY
CLEARING &                                                                      INSURANCE
              CAPITAL    PROVISIONING   MANAGEMENT      & RISK    AND MARKETS               CENTERS/IT &
SETTLEMENT
              RAISING                                MANAGEMENT                                 ITES




                                                                                                     4
 Table 1 - FinTech Scope

       Category             Products/Platforms/Services             Technologies



  Payments, Clearing        • Mobile and Web-based
     & Settlement              Payments
                            • Digital Currencies
                            • Crowdfunding
   Deposits, Lending        • Peer to Peer Lending
    & Capital raising       • Smart Contracts/ Trade              • Data Science
                              Finance                             • Big Data
                            • Cloud Computing                     • Artificial
                            • e-Aggregators                         Intelligence &
        Market
                            • Robo Advisory                         Robotics/ Machine
      Provisioning
                            • e-Trading                             Learning
                            • Credit Rating                       • Security &
                            • eKYC                                  Authentication –
      Investment
                            • Asset Management                      Cybersecurity
     Management
                            • Equity and Debt Research            • Biometrics
                            • Securities Market                   • Blockchain
                            • Custody, Trusteeship and            • Internet of Things
    Data Analytics &
                              Settlement                            (IoT)
   Risk Management
                            • Marketplace                         • Mobile POS
                            • Online Broking                      • NFC/ RFID
                            • Insurance/Policy & Claims           • Augmented
     Exchanges and            Management                            Reality/Virtual
        Markets             • Neo/Digital Banking                   Reality
                            • Underwriting Services
                            • Regulatory Services – AML,
                              Transaction Monitoring
       Insurance
                            • Payment Gateways
                            • White Label Software
                            • APIs
    Global Capability       • Remittances
    Centers/IT & ITeS



This Policy will be valid till 31.12.2025. Operational guidelines and clarification may be
issued from time to time.




                                                                                         5
      2           Objectives
2.1. Vision
Transform Tamil Nadu into a leading global destination for FinTech firms by 2025.


2.2. Mission
 • Increase financial inclusion and fintech adoption rate in Tamil Nadu by
 promoting digital solutions for the traditional financial sector.
 • Develop a comprehensive and concerted program with government agencies to
 provide a one-stop shop solution to existing and new FinTech firms in the State.
 • Facilitate    seamless    and     transparent      Business-to-Business      (B2B),
 Business-to-Consumer (B2C), Government-to-Government (G2G), Government
 -to-Business (G2B), and Government-to-Citizen (G2C) financial transactions
 efficiently.
 • Develop industry-academia linkages to create a FinTech knowledge ecosystem
 comprising universities, research institutions, design & innovation labs, and
 FinTech firms.
 • Develop, attract, and nurture talent in the fields of finance and digital
 technologies.
 • Develop the necessary infrastructure required for attracting and promoting the
 next generation of FinTech firms.
 • Develop partnerships with other leading FinTech centres across the world.


2.3. Goals
 • To become the leading State in the country in terms of growth of new FinTech
 firms incorporated during the Policy period.
 • Develop a FinTech city in the State with 1 million square feet of working space for
 FinTech firms with a world class FinTech Innovation Hub/FinTech Lab.
 • Set up Skill Centres for FinTech in the State in partnership with premier institutes
 & private firms which shall also serve as Centres of Excellence (CoEs) to support
 entrepreneurs/ SMEs/ startups in the State.




                                                                                      6
      3          FinTech Initiatives
To position Tamil Nadu as an established hub for FinTech firms, the State shall focus
its efforts on creating an enabling ecosystem for FinTech. Tamil Nadu has already
undertaken several initiatives to address the requirements of FinTech firms in skill
development, educational infrastructure, and physical infrastructure.


3.1. FinTech Cell
The Government of Tamil Nadu has set up a dedicated FinTech Cell in Guidance to
support the FinTech sector in the State. The FinTech Cell shall undertake promotion,
facilitation, and advisory activities such as:
 a. Encourage FinTech firms especially startups, to participate and represent the
 State in national and international banking, finance, and FinTech programmes
 such as seminars, conferences, exhibitions, and events.
 b. Organise regular interactions with other FinTech hubs such as Singapore and
 London.
 c. In association with TANSIM and FinBlue, collaborate with various national
 investment promotion agencies and associations such as NASSCOM, to host
 marketing events and promote Tamil Nadu.
 d. Conduct hackathons, business challenges, and annual award events to identify
 the leading FinTech firms in the State and support in the development of the
 FinTech ecosystem.
 e. Support the FinTech Governing Council in interactions with the Government of
 India, regulators, other Government & non-Government agencies necessary to
 ensure policy-level support.
 f. Provide facilitation support in the form of location advisory, incentives
 applications, approval and clearances.




                                                                                    7
3.2. FinBlue
The Government of Tamil Nadu in collaboration with the Ministry of Electronics and
Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India and Software Technology
Parks of India (STPI) set up FinBlue - a Centre of Excellence for FinTech in Chennai in
2019. In 2021, FinBlue conducted Pitchfest 2.0, during which it received 345
applications from startups and selected 26 startups from domains such as lending,
payment, asset management, remittances, risk & compliance, investment research,
and tax.


FinBlue has been designed to identify startups with a potential to create disruptive
products or services by way of screening mechanisms such as Hackathons and
challenges. FinBlue provides business/organizational support in the startups phase,
mentoring and technical support through industry partners, access to financial
resources (Angel Funding, Seed Funding, and Venture Capital), and access to
networking facilities and markets. It has partnered with several notable institutions
such as IIT Madras, National Payments Corporation of India (NCPI), PayPal, NatWest
Group, Yes Bank, ICICI Bank, and Amazon, among others.


The FinBlue Sandbox consists of APIs exchange, Core Banking Software (CBS),
analytical & performance monitoring tools providing a real time environment to
FinTech startups which are involved in developing and testing their prototype
FinTech products. The APIs exchange is a comprehensive interface which provides a
common digital platform for banks, financial institutions and startups. The State
shall work together with STPI to create a co-sandboxing with RBI in achieving the
Regulatory Sandbox, which shall help RBI to gauge the regulatory changes needed.
The FinBlue Marketplace will connect FinTech firms with investors, BFSI industry
representatives and Knowledge partners. It shall provide FinTech firms a unique
opportunity to interact with domestic and global investors and secure funding
support. FinBlue also provides premium plug-and-play co-working space for tech
startups, access to the FinTech ecosystem, and a platform to support Go-to-Market
strategy.




                                                                                     8
FinBlue shall also endeavour to publish an annual report on the performance and
progress of the FinTech sector using a FinTech Index with parameters such as
funding secured by firms, number of fintech startups per segment, Fintech adoption
rate, best performing FinTech firm per segment by revenue/users. Based on such
reports, the FinTech Governing Council shall undertake strategic initiatives for the
development of the FinTech sector in the State.

3.3. Development of Chennai as a FinTech Hub
The Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited (TIDCO) will develop a
FinTech city in Chennai with a built-up space of at least 1 million square feet in a
phased manner. The FinTech City will develop as the fulcrum of financial services
and related activities, largely driven by next-generation technologies in Tamil Nadu.
The FinTech City shall largely be virtual, interconnected digitally with an iconic
building in Chennai and other FinTech centres in Tier 2 & 3 cities.


The FinTech City would house entities across a wide spectrum of financial, IT and
banking services. These include financial regulatory institutions, trade insurers and
regulators, IT firms providing Banking Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI)
services, digital technology services such as blockchain, automation and robotics,
industry sandboxes, artificial intelligence, and data analytics.


Standalone projects/buildings hosting FinTech services shall also be provided with
uninterrupted power supply and communication infrastructure. Space shall be
reserved for Incubators and Accelerators and would be provided at concessional
rental rates.


Specialized financial services funding agencies such as Private Equity (PE) firms,
Venture Capital (VC) firms would also be encouraged to set up operations in the
FinTech City to establish the necessary funding ecosystem for FinTech firms. The
State shall also look at setting up plug-and-play co-working facilities for FinTech
firms and Risk Capital Providers. The Government shall encourage and assist in the
establishment of an Innovation Hub to attract financial institutions that seek to
engage in R&D activities.




            Proposed FinTech City
            Nandambakkam, Chennai




                                                                                   9
3.4. Promoting Digital Payment Zones in the State
The Government of Tamil Nadu shall encourage digital payments by developing
Digital Payment Zones in the State in a phased manner. The State shall, as a pilot
project, develop a Digital Payment Zone in Chennai within a 5 km radius of the
FinTech City. Within these zones, the Government shall accelerate FinTech adoption
by encouraging digital payment modes such as UPI, Mobile Wallets, Point of Sale
(PoS), and Micro-ATMs for C2G (Consumers/Business to Government), G2C
(Government to Consumers), B2C (Business to Consumers), and C2B (Consumers to
Business) transactions related to utilities, transportation, taxes, goods and services.


3.5. Regionally Balanced FinTech Development
TIDCO will develop Neo-TIDEL parks in Tier 2 & 3 cities with state-of-the-art
plug-and-play office space in various sizes to suit the needs of small and large
players. These parks spanning 5-10 acres shall be located in prime locations with
excellent last mile connectivity. The Neo-TIDEL parks will have dedicated labs for
FinTech. The facilities shall have failsafe power and communication infrastructure
with backup arrangements.


3.6. FinTech Registry
The State will set up a FinTech Registry for FinTech firms in Tamil Nadu. This Registry,
managed by the FinTech Cell, shall enable the State to track and monitor the
progress of FinTech firms effectively. The FinTech Registry would also be used as a
common platform to help facilitate discussions between FinTech players to boost
collaboration and development in the sector.




                                                                                     10
3.7. Skill Development & Education Infrastructure Initiatives
The Government of Tamil Nadu recognizes the need for skill development initiatives
to boost the FinTech ecosystem in the State and shall undertake the following
measures:

• Provide online and offline continuous learning programs with industry relevant
curriculum to students, working professionals, and startups across the State in
vernacular languages to enable the development of a skilled talent pool for FinTech
in the State.
• Facilitate curriculum redesign in engineering institutions to impart knowledge of
FinTech to students.
• Collaborate with various FinTech firms to establish a pipeline of employment
opportunities for skilled personnel.
• School Education Department shall design online and offline curriculum and
training, in vernacular languages for improving financial literacy among students,
leveraging best practices from across the globe.
• Utilise schemes such as Government of India’s Financial Education Programme for
Adults (FEPA) and Financial Literacy and Credit Counselling Centres in banks for
increasing financial awareness in the underprivileged and financially excluded
sections of the society.
• Tamil Nadu State Development Corporation (TNSDC) shall develop an Apex Skill
Development Centre (APSDC) for Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI)
which will offer courses on FinTech and serve as a Centre of Excellence. The APSDC
shall be established in a PPP mode as a Special Purpose Vehicle with TNSDC and an
industry partner.




                                                                                11
3.8. Encouraging FinTech Adoption
The Government of Tamil Nadu has implemented several governance measures to
spur the adoption of FinTech in the State. The Integrated Financial & Human
Resources Management System (IFHRMS) is a government wide transformation to
utilise technology in improving the financial activities of the State Government and
ensure robust management of State Finances. The State has also implemented an
e-challan system which enables online payments for different government services.
Additionally, for Government procurements below Rs. 20 lakh, startups registered
with TANSIM have been provided with relaxations on payment of Earnest Money
Deposit (EMD), prior turnover requirements, prior experience requirements, and
waiver of tender cost. These enabling provisions for easing governmental
procurement shall also be applicable to FinTech startups.




                                                                                  12
      4          Creating an Enabling Ecosystem
4.1. Power Infrastructure
One of the main requirements for an Information Technology driven enterprise is
the availability of high-quality and uninterrupted power. Tamil Nadu is a power
surplus State and a leader in renewable power generation. The Government of
Tamil Nadu launched a scheme in 2017 of signing Memorandum of Understanding
(MoU) with TANGEDCO for providing uninterrupted power supply to
Industries/Developers with an electrical demand of 10 MVA and above or with
investment above Rs. 100 crores. This shall also be extended to FinTech firms in
designated FinTech parks of the State promoted by Government Agencies.


4.2. Connectivity Infrastructure
Tamil Nadu has excellent Optical Fiber Communication (OFC) network and
availability of reliable and large bandwidth. With 6 Submarine Cables, Chennai has
one of the largest bandwidths among Indian cities (14.8 Tbps). The Submarine Cable
linking Chennai with Singapore has significantly increased the existing bandwidth
capacity to India. It is the second fastest-growing communications route in the
world. South-East-Asia–Middle East–Western Europe 4 (SEA-ME-WE 4), which has a
landing point in Chennai, is an optical fiber submarine communications cable
system that carries telecommunications between Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand,
Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Sudan,
Egypt, Italy, Tunisia, Algeria, and France. The State is also focusing on increasing
fiber capacity and more submarine cable landings to improve international
connectivity and has at least 3 more submarine cable projects in the pipeline.




                                                                                  13
Tamil Nadu, thus, provides islands of high-speed connectivity on par with the best
in the world for the FinTech players. The Government has undertaken various
projects to improve tele-density and broadband penetration in the State and
ensure reliable and efficient telecom networks throughout the State with the
Bharat Net and Tamil Net projects. Tele-density, which is measured as the number
of telecom connections per hundred people is 30% higher in Tamil Nadu at 116.94
vis-à-vis India’s tele-density of 90.1. The proliferation of internet services to people in
rural areas through these programmes shall help in driving the demand for FinTech
services.


4.3. IT Infrastructure & Cybersecurity
Tamil Nadu is also emerging as a hub for commissioning, operation, and
maintenance of Data Centres. The Government of Tamil Nadu has also set up the
State Data Centre, Cloud Computing Facilities, and Common Service Centres for
improving the access of citizens to online Government services.


The State has also set up an exclusive full-fledged Disaster Recovery Centre (DRC) in
Tiruchirappalli which is the first of its kind in India. The DRC will ensure continuity of
critical e-Governance applications in the State during calamities.


The Government of Tamil Nadu, cognisant of growing cyber-security threats has
released the Tamil Nadu Cybersecurity Policy 2020 to develop a comprehensive
security risk reduction strategy that envisions a cybersecurity architecture for the
State supported by the Security Operations Centre (SOC-TN) and Computer
Emergency Response Team (CERT-TN). CERT-TN will function as the State’s
dedicated nodal agency to monitor, detect, assess and respond to cybersecurity
issues faced by the Government.




                                                                                        14
4.4. Single Window Clearances
Establishing a FinTech firm requires approvals from different departments for land,
building, electrical inspection, and labour. The Government of Tamil Nadu is
working on improving the ease and reducing the cost of doing business through
the following initiatives :-


 i) Reducing the compliance burden by undertaking sustained reforms to reduce
 and simplify 286 compliances required by businesses under various Acts/Rules
 and Regulations.


 ii) The upgraded Tamil Nadu Single Window Portal offers 100 digitised services to
 investors, with an additional 100 digitised services to be added by FY 22, thereby
 transforming the process to become faceless, contactless, and paperless.


The nodal agencies (M-TIPB/Guidance) shall be responsible for facilitating FinTech
firms to obtain necessary approvals within the stipulated time without
impediments.

4.5. Administrative and Labour Support
FinTech firms operating in the State would be provided with administrative and
labour support as mentioned below-


 • Exemption from Acts & Self Certification as per the prevailing Tamil Nadu IT
 Policy.
 • The State has been taking several steps to facilitate ease of doing business in the
 State with respect to labour laws. The Government has implemented the Online
 Inspection System with the objective of bringing in more transparency in the
 inspection procedures. In particular, startup establishments are exempt from
 online inspection under the labour laws for a period of 3 years from the date of
 commencement of work/business (except branches of establishment existing
 beyond 3 years). Establishments submitting a combined annual return for labour
 and having no violations consecutively for 3 years are also exempt from inspection
 under the labour laws.




                                                                                    15
4.6. Relaxation in Planning Permissions
Leading real estate agencies have stated that Chennai is a preferred destination for
corporates due to the availability of high-quality office spaces at competitive prices
vis-à-vis other cities. Tamil Nadu provides favourable concessions to IT firms in the
form of FSI benefits under the Tamil Nadu Combined Development Building Rules
2019 viz. incidental activities allowed for up to 10% of the total floor area, and
additional FSI of 0.5 without premium FSI charges for high rise developments.
These shall be extended to FinTech firms which will further strengthen Chennai’s
position in the FinTech space. Effectively, FinTech firms in high rise developments
shall have an FSI of 3.75 with no additional premium FSI charges.


Further, the Government of Tamil Nadu recognises the importance of last mile
connectivity & transit-oriented development for FinTech Hubs. Hence, existing &
new properties within a distance of 500m from the central line of metro rail
corridors, shall be provided a concession of 50% on the normal premium FSI rates
applicable.


4.7. Ease of Living
Ease of doing business in the State transcends business transactions and
encompasses the daily aspects of ease of living for a firm’s workforce. Social
infrastructure is a critical component to support a firm and its workforce. Tier 1 & 2
cities such as Chennai and Coimbatore offer a good balance of cultural heritage and
a cosmopolitan environment for their residents. The Ease of Living Index 2020
published by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs ranked Chennai and
Coimbatore as 4th and 7th respectively on the list of most liveable cities with a
population greater than 1 million.


Salem and Vellore were ranked 5th and 6th respectively in the list of most liveable
cities with a population of less than 1 million. Tamil Nadu strives to improve the Ease
of Living for the firms and its workforce with the aim of making its cities including
Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities, a preferred destination in India.




                                                                                     16
      5           Funding Support
There are many FinTech firms in the startup space that begin with seed funding
and then scale through subsequent series of funding. The State is cognisant of the
risks associated with startups and the difficulty in accessing credit during the initial
phase. Thus, the Government of Tamil Nadu endeavours to support FinTech firms
through multiple funding avenues. The Sanctioning Authority (as defined in Section
7.2 of this Policy) shall endorse FinTech firms for funding assistance. The FinTech
Cell shall support FinTech firms in applying to the concerned Government agencies
for funding.


5.1. Tamil Nadu Startup Seed Grant Fund
The Tamil Nadu Startup Seed Grant Fund created under the TN Startup and
Innovation Policy 2018 provides grant financing to support early-stage financing
requirements of the startups for research & innovation purposes. At least Rs. 5 cr.
would be earmarked from this fund for FinTech startups. The eligibility criteria
under Tamil Nadu’s Startup Seed Grant Fund shall be suitably relaxed for FinTech
firms.


5.2. Tamil Nadu Emerging Sector Seed Fund
The Government of Tamil Nadu recognizes the scope of sunrise sectors and has set
up a broad-based Emerging Sector Seed Fund with a corpus of Rs. 500 crore
through TIDCO/ Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation
(TNIFMC). At least Rs. 20 crore would be earmarked from this fund to provide
venture capital for supporting the early-stage financing requirements of eligible
FinTech startups.


5.3. Digital Accelerator under Yaadhum Oorae
The Government of Tamil Nadu has announced a ‘Digital Accelerator’ scheme
under Yaadhum Oorae with American Tamil Entrepreneurs Association (ATEA) to
promote startups investing from USA in Tamil Nadu from various fields such as
IT/Healthcare/EV/emerging areas on IoT, AI, Cloud Computing /SDGs. It is proposed
that a grant of 10% of capital raised may be provided towards operational and
capital expenditure, up to Rs. 1 cr. per startup. Similar funds may be created for
startups that contribute to innovation, from other countries with Tamil diaspora.



                                                                                      17
The sanction of the grants shall be evaluated by the Sanctioning Authority and
funded from the Tamil Nadu Startup Fund of Funds. During FY 2020-21, 75
applications were received under this accelerator programme; with 5 startups
across various sectors including FinTech were shortlisted and provided grants
during the Tamil Nadu Investment Conclave 2021 held in July 2021.


5.4. State Innovation Fund
The State, through its Tamil Nadu Innovation Initiatives supports innovation in
process/practice/approach/technique or Information Technology, which is new or
novel to public service delivery. Innovative ideas shall be nurtured by special
innovation programs (such as Innovation Voucher Program). 25% of the project cost
may be provided as a grant to eligible agencies such as State Universities/State
agencies. FinTech firms are encouraged to approach eligible agencies for
partnership with their proposals. The Government shall issue the necessary
guidelines for adding FinTech to the areas notified by the State Planning
Commission.




                                                                               18
      6             Incentives
The Government of Tamil Nadu is cognisant of the roles essayed by the different
FinTech stakeholders and intends to support and nurture them by providing a
customised set of incentives for each. Thus, in addition to supporting FinTech
startups and large firms venturing into the FinTech sector, the Government shall
also support Angel Funds, Private Equity, Venture Capital Funds and Incubators.


6.1. FinTech Startups
Any entity which satisfies all of the following criteria will be deemed eligible to avail
incentives under this Policy: -


 i. Any entity (public or private) incorporated in India which has commenced sales
 operations from Tamil Nadu on or after 01.04.2020
 ii. Any entity which has been recognised as a Startup by TANSIM/FinBlue/Startup
 India initiative
                                          (OR)
 Any entity which has been selected as part of RBI/any other financial sector
 sandbox initiative, incubated at a government-recognized Atal incubation centre
 of any academic institution.
 iii. Any entity which has a registered office or branch office undertaking core
 design and software development of FinTech product/service in Tamil Nadu,
 adhering to international standards such as ISO 9001, ISO 27001 etc.




                                                                                       19
The Government will promote regionally balanced development in the State
through the provision of higher incentives for firms setting up in Tier 2 and Tier 3
cities of the State. The detailed list is provided in Annexure 1.



        Balanced Regional Development Incentive Stratification
  Cities (Corporations/Municipalities)           Incentive Limit Multiplier


               Tier 1                                        1


               Tier 2                                       1.5


               Tier 3                                        2



The incentive limits for FinTech firms in Tier 3 cities shall be doubled while those
setting up in Tier 2 cities shall have their incentive limits increased to 1.5 times,
where applicable. The incentives offered under this section shall be subject to the
following conditions: –


 • Firms eligible under this Policy can avail the incentives provided under this
 Section for a maximum period of 3 years or until 31.12.2025, whichever is earlier.
 • Eligible firms which have commenced sales on or after 01.04.2020, can avail a
 back-ended subsidy for the incentives accrued in FY 2020-21.
 • Expenses claimed under one category cannot be claimed under a different
 category (e.g. – expenses claimed under Marketing Support cannot be claimed
 under Operational Expenses Support).
 • The firm applying for incentives shall submit an undertaking that they are
 engaged in core design and software development of a FinTech product/service in
 Tamil Nadu.
 • The incentives will be limited to the extent of operations in Tamil Nadu.




                                                                                      20
6.1.1. Operating Expenses Support

75% of operating expenses shall be reimbursed by the State Government up to an
incentive limit of Rs. 5 lakh per year. This shall include:


 • Expenses like rent, electricity, power, water charges, internet access, and other
 tariffs payable.
 • Statutory charges payable to Government of Tamil Nadu.
 • Company registration expenses, including professional charges for the same.
 • Expenses related to technical support for creation of lab/innovation hub for
 sandbox.
 • Research and development expenses including Intellectual Property creation
 such as patents, copyrights, and trademarks, Proof of Concept activities (inclusive
 of professional service support – consultancy, cyber security testing, IT audit,
 training, change management).
 • Expenses related to professional services like legal and accounting services.
 • Expenses related to sales.
 • Expenses related to tax and legal advisory services.
 • Expenses on furniture, hardware, office supplies, maintenance, and repair
 activities.
 • Membership fees paid by FinTech firms to be a part of recognised international
 councils.
 • Expenses related to listing the firm on the stock exchanges (international stock
 exchange listing fee reimbursement subject to regulatory approvals).




                                                                                   21
6.1.2. FinTech Accelerator Kit

The State shall provide FinTech startups with a FinTech Accelerator Kit to reduce
initial product development costs and help scale their business swiftly. The FinTech
Accelerator Kit shall provide FinTech startups free credits with TANSIM’s ecosystem
partners in segments such as cloud services, financial data services, payment
gateways up to an incentive limit Rs. 5 lakh per year.


6.1.3. Marketing Support
The State shall provide 50% reimbursement of expenses incurred for promotional
events, other national and international events or reimbursement of expenses
towards digital marketing areas such as social media, web design up to an incentive
limit of Rs. 2 lakhs per year.


6.1.4. SGST Reimbursement
The State shall reimburse 100% of Net SGST paid by the firm up to an incentive limit
of Rs. 5 lakhs per year.


6.1.5. Employment Assistance
Employment Assistance in the form of reimbursement of expenses incurred
towards Employee Provident Fund (EPF) shall be provided based on the core staff
(staff engaged in design and software development of the FinTech product/service)
employed and working in Tamil Nadu as provided in Table 2.




                                                                                  22
Table 2 - Employment Assistance

                                     Reimbursement Assistance - % of employer’s
       Headcount                         annual employee EPF contribution
        (Annual)
                                      Tier 1                  Tier 2                 Tier 3


          10-50                        12%                     18%                   24%


         50-100                        18%                     24%                   36%


          100+                        24%                      36%                   48%

Note: Incentive Limit Multiplier shall not be applicable for Employment Assistance



6.1.6. Skill Development Support

The State shall reimburse 100% of the fees associated with skill development,
leadership development, and professional qualification courses completed through
skilling institutes/training centres recognised by NSDC/NASCOM/RBI/Government
of Tamil Nadu/Top 20 NIRF engineering/management institutes, up to an incentive
limit of Rs 3 lakh per year.



6.2. Structured Package of Incentives
A structured package of incentives would be extended to firms with investment
greater than Rs. 50 crore and direct employment for 300 people or more over a
period of less than 3 years on a case-to-case basis.


The first 5 large FinTech firms shall also be eligible for a relocation incentive of 50%
of the cost of relocation up to an incentive limit of Rs. 10 crore during the Policy
period.




                                                                                              23
6.3. Risk Capital Providers
The Government recognises the critical role played by Angel Funds, Private Equity,
Venture Capital Funds and Incubators (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Risk
Capital Providers”) in providing access to risk capital for FinTech startups and are
essential for the development of a FinTech startup ecosystem. Angel Funds, Private
Equity, Venture Capital Funds registered with SEBI along with incubators
recognised by Startup India Seed Fund scheme shall be eligible for the incentives
listed below.


6.3.1. FinTech Listing Fees Support
Risk Capital Providers shall be provided with a 100% reimbursement of fees
associated with the listing of FinTech firms from Tamil Nadu in their portfolio on a
stock exchange (domestic/international) up to a maximum of Rs. 2.5 lakh/firm.


6.3.2. Rental Fee Support
Risk Capital Providers shall be provided with a rental fee support to set up in the
State to promote the growth of the FinTech ecosystem:

 a) Angel Funds, Private Equity, Venture Capital Funds, and Incubators shall be
 eligible for concessional lease rental payments in FinTech hubs established by the
 Government of Tamil Nadu during the policy period.


 b) Incubators in non-Government hubs, shall be eligible for reimbursement of 50%
 rental fees limited to Rs. 2 lakhs per startup per year subject to a maximum of Rs.
 10 lakhs per year during the policy period.


6.3.3. Matching Grant
The Government of Tamil Nadu through an appropriate agency shall invite and
partner with different angel funds, private equity, venture capital funds and
incubators. The selected partner agency shall identify and evaluate FinTech firms
suitable for funding purposes. Eligible firms shall qualify for an equity-free grant of
the capital raised limited to Rs. 1 crore per firm towards their operational and capital
expenditure incurred in Tamil Nadu. The partner agency shall also support the
Government in the development of a tracking framework to monitor the progress
of the firms funded under this initiative.




                                                                                      24
      7          Governance Mechanism
7.1. FinTech Governing Council
The Government will set up a FinTech Governing Council under the chairmanship of
the Honourable Minister for Industries with the following members for monitoring
the progress and implementation of this Policy and oversight of FinTech initiatives:


 • Honourable Minister for Industries, Government of Tamil Nadu – (Chairman)
 • Chief Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu – (Vice-Chairman)
 • Secretary, Industries Department, Government of Tamil Nadu
 • Secretary, Finance Department, Government of Tamil Nadu
 • Secretary, Information and Technology Department, Government of Tamil Nadu
 • Secretary, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Department, Government of
 Tamil Nadu
 • MD & CEO, Guidance, Department of Industries, Government of Tamil Nadu –
 (Convener)
 • Mission Director, Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Mission
 • CEO FinBlue / Director, STPI Centre Chennai
 • Up to three members from the FinTech sector


The Governing Council for FinTech may form sub-committees to address various
themes in this Policy such as marketing and branding, business development and
outreach, partnerships, education, venture capital, and regulation. The FinTech
Governing Council may enlist the support of experts, specialist institutions in each
of these areas, as and when required.




                                                                                  25
7.2. Sanctioning Authority
The Sanctioning Authority shall be a sub-committee formed from the main
Governing Council as defined in Section 7.1, with a minimum quorum of three
members. The Sanctioning Authority thus formed, shall be responsible for the
sanctioning of incentives defined in Section 6, as well as endorsing applications for
funding as defined in Section 5.


7.3. Implementing Agency
The State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT) will be
mandated as the implementing and disbursal agency for all the incentives listed in
this Policy.




                                                                                   26
     A           Annexures
8.1. Annexure 1 –List of Corporations/Municipalities

      Category                        Corporations/ Municipalities


        Tier 1                         Chennai Metropolitan Area


                               Coimbatore, Dindigul, Erode, Hosur, Madurai,
        Tier 2                   Nagercoil, Salem, Thoothukudi, Thanjavur,
                                Tiruchirappalli, Tirunelveli, Tiruppur, Vellore


        Tier 3                      Other Corporations/ Municipalities



This list of corporations/ municipalities may be notified by the Government of Tamil
Nadu from time to time.




                                                                                  27
Notes




        28
29
