Tamil Nadu
Food Processing Policy
2018

Government of Tamil Nadu
Government of Tamil Nadu

Tamil Nadu
Food Processing Policy
2018

Department of Agricultural Marketing and
Agri Business
Contents...

Introduction
Tamil Nadu- A profile

Major Thrust areas for
Food Processing sector

Market Overview
Preparatory Document

Tamil Nadu Food Processing
Policy Vision

Policy Targets and Objectives
Impact Envisaged

Quality, Health and
Safety Aspects envisaged

Policy Validity

Policy Purview / Eligibility

Nodal Agency

Supersession

Definitions

Strategies Envisaged

Incentives and Support Measures
Annexure I - Value Added products

Annexure II - Items and Activities
Covered under the Policy

Annexure III - Government of India
Incentives

10
Lk
i
1.2
13
14
12
22
24

25
TAMIL NADU
FOOD PROCESSING POLICY 2018

a iF
INTRODUCTION

Food processing has been a part of Indian culture since time
immemorial. The advancement of technology in the recent decades has
spurred exponential growth in the Food Processing industry, contributing to
value addition, preservation of food, reduction in food losses, round the year
availability, increased employment, export opportunities and change in food
habits. Besides, increasing the shelf life of perishables like fruits and
vegetables it has also resulted in increasing of farmers' income and in
controlling price fluctuations.

Food processing industry accounts for 32 percent of India's total food
market, 14 percent of manufacturing Gross Domestic Product (GDP),
12 percent of India's exports and 6 percent of total industrial investment.
However, the present level of processing is less than 2% in Fruits and
Vegetables, 8% in Marine, 35% in Milk and 6% in Poultry. India's share in
World's processed food production is just 1%.

The current level of processing of agricultural commodities is less than
2% in Tamil Nadu also and the State government envisages to increase the
percentage of processed food, especially Fruits and Vegetables to 10%.

As a part of the overall reforms in the sector and to give more impetus

to achieve objectives such as increasing farmers' income, reducing wastage
of food products, value addition to farm products, etc., Government of Tamil
Nadu has decided to evolve an exclusive Policy for food processing sector in
the State.

a
125
TAMIL NADU —- A PROFILE

Tamil Nadu is one of the bigger States of the country with an area of
1,30,058 Sq. Kms and a population of 72 million as per 2011 census. The
State has a coastline of 1076 Kms and its climatic conditions are basically
tropical and subtropical. There are 7 Agro climatic zones suitable for
cultivation of various crops. The State benefits both from Southwest and
Northeast monsoons and the predominant soils in the State are red loam,
laterite, black, alluvial and saline soil. Favourable factors such as the above
enable Tamil Nadu to produce a vast variety of Agricultural, Horticultural,
Aqua-cultural and Animal Husbandry produces. Tamil Nadu is well connected
to Major National and International Trade Centres through its 4 major ports,
4 International Airports, 2 lakh Kms of road network and vast rail
connectivity. The State is endowed with scientific and research talent pool,
with 38 Agricultural and Horticultural Research Stations. These factors
provide vast scope for scaling up of the food processing sector in the State.

a
a
[23] MAJOR THRUST AREAS FOR
FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR

Food processing industries sector provides a vital link between Agriculture
and Industrial sectors. Strengthening this
link is of critical importance to achieve the
objectives laid and spelt out by this policy.

The following have been identified as the
areas that require thrust to promote and
develop food processing industry in the
State.

(I) Promoting innovative measures for fostering group co-operation in
adoption of pre and post-harvest technologies.

(ii) Changing the cropping pattern and adoption of high-tech
agriculture for quality produce to meet the requirements of food
processing units.

= 2 =
(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

Speedy development of
infrastructure to promote
food - processing
industry.

Removing statutory /
legal hurdles affecting

growth of food processing &
industry and introducing
new provisions to
facilitate food processing.

Facilitating financial assistance to entrepreneurs, considering the
high risk factor and capital-intensive nature of the industry.

Creation of reliable information network, data bank etc., so as to
provide the entrepreneurs, suppliers and buyers necessary
information and services under one roof.

Adopting an integrated and coordinated approach in respect of
allied sectors such as agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,
aquaculture and animal husbandry activities (dairy, poultry).

Upgrading processing standards by introduction of mechanized
cleaning, sorting, grading of agricultural produce and providing
facilities for establishing integrated cold chain within the State for
perishable produce like fruits, vegetables, poultry, meat, dairy
products, marine products, etc., and for processed foods.

a
fF
MARKET OVERVIEW

4.1 National Scenario

India is one of the biggest producers of banana, mango, papaya,
chickpea, garlic, ginger and okra in the world. The country also ranks second
in the production of sugarcane, rice, potato, wheat, garlic, groundnut (with
shells), dry onion, green pea, pumpkin, gourds, cauliflower, tea, tomato,
lentils and cow milk.

Indian food processing sector has grown at 6.87% in 2015-16 and
contributed Rs.1.62 lakh crore to Gross Value Added (GVA) at 2011-12
prices.*

4.2. Tamil Nadu Scenario

Tamil Nadu is a leading player in Agro processing sector and has about
24,000 food processing firms registered as Small and Micro Enterprises
(SMEs) and about 1,100 medium and large units. The State contributes about
7% of India's food processing output. This is made possible due to State's
competitive advantage in terms of abundant agro resources, growing

‘National Account Statistics 2016/Central Statistics office.

-4-
As such, agriculture and allied activities provide sustenance to about
40 percent of Tamil Nadu's population and contribute about 12 percent of
Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP).

The State produces about 120 lakh MT of food grains, 140 lakh MT of
fruits and vegetables, contributing about 3 percent of India's food grain
produce, 7 percent of vegetable produce and 12 percent of fruit produce.

Tamil Nadu is one among the biggest producers of Banana, Tapioca and
Cloves. The State is also one of the leading producers of Maize, Tamarind,
Grapes, Turmeric and Pepper in the country.

Besides this, the State produces 77.42 Lakh Metric Tonne of milk per
annum. It ranks 4th in marine fish production and 6th in inland fish
production.

Tamil Nadu is also amongst the leading states in the country in broiler
production with 4.41 Lakh Metric Tonne production in 2017-18. The State is
second in egg production, producing over 1,741 crore eggs with farmers and
processors concentrated in the poultry belt of Namakkal, Erode and
Coimbatore.”

?Season and Crop Report 2015-16
The key production statistics of Tamil Nadu (2015-16) are presented

below:

S. No. Crops

Lakh Metric Tonnes (LMT)

1 Sugarcane 255
2 Rice 73.74
3 Maize 25.32
4 Groundnut 8.92
sen | rane | tincTmer(
1 Banana 36.10
2 Mango 8.69
sine | venenbes | tueneironest)
1 Tapioca 23.66
2 Tomato 3.43
3 Onion 2.83
4 Brinjal 1.04

4.3. Export Potential

India has the potential to develop as a major base for the export of
processed foods due to its strategic geographical location and proximity to
food-importing nations. The value of exports has been showing an increasing
trend with Average Annual Growth Rate (AAGR) of 20.53% for five years
ending 2013-14. The value of processed food exports during 2013-14 was of
the order of US$ 37.79 billion (total exports US$ 312 billion) constituting
12.1% of India's total exports.”

Tamil Nadu is one of the leading food exporters of various food products
like Marine products, Rice, Cereal
products, Dairy products etc. The
value of export of Agro processed
food from Tamil Nadu during 2013- &
14 was US$ 1490 Million.’

The State is also taking
initiatives for setting-up of Modern
Terminal Market Complexes —- One
at Kancheepuram and another at
Madurai, which will operate on Hub-and-Spoke Model by encouraging private
investment on Built, Own and Operate basis on Public Private Partnership
(PPP) mode. These Terminal Market Complexes will pave way for export of
agricultural produce.

Ea.
PREPARATORY DOCUMENT

A Vision document was also got prepared in August 2017 by the
Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri-Business, Government of
Tamil Nadu for developing and promoting food processing industry in the
State. The document recognizes the dynamic role of Markets and Agro / Food
processing industries in Tamil Nadu as "necessary engines for achieving
national development goals" envisaged such as economic growth, poverty
alleviation, employment and wealth creation, leading to increased income of

* Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics.
* State Industrial Profile of Tamil Nadu (www.ibef.org)

-7-
farmers manifold. To develop food processing in the State, it lays down
strategic themes which include transition to value added agri production,
enhancement of raw material availability through cluster development,
promotion of processing, facilitation for growth of identified end product
segments, increase penetration of processed food, assurance of food safety
standards and quality assurance, promotion of exports, etc.

Ga.
TAMIL NADU FOOD PROCESSING
POLICY VISION

To steer Tamil Nadu as the premier | VISION

food processing hub of India by harnessing
its production strength, deep industrial
culture, skilled manpower, favourable
agro-climatic conditions and excellent
connectivity. To capitalize on rich and
diverse food production base of the State
and to provide fillip to this sector.

a
a
7 POLICY TARGETS AND OBJECTIVES

7.1 Focus on Crop/Commodity based Farming Clusters and to enable
a planned and focused approach to cater to the Food Processing
Industry.

7.2 To reduce wastage, increase value addition, ensure better price
for farmers while ensuring availability of affordable and quality
produce to consumers.

7.3 To identify and bridge the infrastructure gap besides promoting
innovations, Research & Development and Technology
Upgradation especially in Food Packaging, Food Testing and
Quality.

7.4 To enhance raw material availability, facilitate ease of

# @ =
7.5

7.6

7.7

procurement by processors and to encourage farmers to grow
more remunerative crops.

To promote processing and create adequate infrastructure
facilities by active involvement of Private Sector, Cooperatives as
well as Public-Private Participation, adopt state-of-the-art
technology and innovation to make food processing industry
competitive and establish institutions and procedures to ensure
traceability, food safety and quality assurance.

To generate employment opportunities in the Agro and Food
Processing Sector.

To make Tamil Nadu a preferred destination for food processing
industries and attract new investments.

IMPACT ENVISAGED

8.1 Socio Economic Impact

The growth of the food processing will have a vast impact on the social and
economic development of the State considering that 40% of the population is

involved

in agriculture and allied activities. The policy outlines various

initiatives of the State like promotion of food processing clusters,
development of food parks, entrepreneurship promotion, establishing skill
centres, supporting Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) etc., which are

expected

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

to contribute significantly in the following: -

Decreasing post-harvest losses due to better technologies and
improved value chain, besides ensuring food availability and
nutritional requirements.

Improving farm gate price
to farmers thereby
enabling increase in farm
income.

Clusterisation of farmers
and enabling to develop
entrepreneurial skills in
addition to improvement

in the range of processed food products through establishment of
new food processing units.

(iv) Increasing employment opportunities and thereby improving
socio economic condition of the people of the Tamil Nadu.

(v) Making available hygienic and wholesome food with longer shelf life
to consumers throughout the year.

(vi) Raising State GDP through the food processing sector and,
(vii) Improving the export potential for processed food from the State.
8.2 Environmental Impact

The Food processing policy of Tamil Nadu advocates adoption of
sustainable environmental practices including energy generation from
bio waste and proposes to incentivize industries that adopt such measures to
ensure adherence to environmental regulations.

‘D.
QUALITY, HEALTH AND
SAFETY ASPECTS ENVISAGED

Food processing Industry must meet International standards to ensure
highest quality, hygiene and safety of food. The Industry is to adhere to
standards regarding health and safety of the workers involved throughout
the food handling process.

The policy seeks to enforce compliance of Food Safety Regulatory
requirements as specified under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006
and seeks to promote a regime of self-regulation amongst food processors in
the State.

fi 0R
POLICY VALIDITY

when required.

-10-
a
i,
POLICY PURVIEW / ELIGIBILITY

1. The Food Processing Policy 2018 covers the sub-sectors of
Agriculture, Horticulture, Agricultural Marketing, Animal
Husbandry, Dairy, Poultry and Fisheries.

2, Food Processing units that are eligible to avail incentives under
this Policy are mentioned in Annexure- II

a
go OR
NODAL AGENCY

12.1 Department of Agricultural Marketing & Agri-Business
(DAM8&AB) shall be the Nodal agency to implement the Policy
and will coordinate with other departments, Government of
India (GOI) and other agencies and facilitate Food Processors,
entrepreneurs and investors in availing the incentives provided
under this Policy and from Government of India.

12.2 Department of Agricultural Marketing & Agri-Business
(DAM&AB) will also act as knowledge support center where
anyone can approach and get relevant information and also
shall empanel consultants for pooling and dissemination of
information in the food processing sector and to develop new

Misti) \h bbl

me

products and processing technology . The knowledge center will
collaborate with institutions such as Indian Institute of Food
Processing Technology (IIFPT), Thanjavur, Central Food
Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), Mysuru and
NABARD.

12.3 A Program Management Agency (PMA) will be set-up to aid the
DAM8AB in evaluating proposals submitted as per this policy
and in monitoring implementation of projects sanctioned.

12.4 A State Level Empowered Committee will be constituted to
oversee the implementation of the Policy and shall act as the
Project Sanctioning Authority.

12.5 DAM8&AB shall prepare detailed guidelines to facilitate
implementation of the Policy directives contained herein and
shall, from time to time, initiate proposals to make changes in
the Policy components as may be required.

135
SUPERSESSION

This Policy supersedes any previous policy regarding Food Processing
sector by the State.

-12-
a
g4R
DEFINITIONS

14.1 Cluster

A Cluster as defined by the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium
Enterprises (MSME), Government of India, is a group of enterprises located
within an identifiable and as far as practicable, contiguous area and
producing same/similar products/services. The essential characteristics of
enterprises in a cluster are (a) similarity or complementarity in the methods
of production, quality control and testing, energy consumption, pollution
control, etc (b) similar level of technology and marketing strategies /
practices (c) channels for communication among the members of the cluster
(d) common challenges and opportunities.

14.2 Consumer

Consumer means persons and families purchasing and receiving
processed food products in order to meet their personal needs.

14.3 Food Processing

Food processing shall include process under which any raw product of
agriculture, dairy, animal husbandry, meat, poultry or fishing is transformed
through a process (involving employees power, machines or money) in sucha
way that its original physical properties undergo a change and if transformed,

the product has commercial value
and is suitable for human and
animal consumption. It also
includes process of value addition to
produce products through methods
such as preservation, addition of
food additives, drying with a view to
preserve food substances in an
effective manner, enhance their
shelf life and quality.

14.4 Food Business Operator / Entrepreneur

As defined in the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, Food business
operator in relation to food business means a person by whom the business is
carried on or owned and is responsible for ensuring the compliance of the Act.

14.5 Food Safety

As defined in the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, Food Safety
means assurance that food is acceptable for human consumption according
to its intended use.

14.6 Food Parks

Food Parks will be a place where food processing units are established
predominantly for production of processable agriculture, horticulture, animal
husbandry, meat, poultry, dairy and fisheries products and notified under
specific norms as may be prescribed.

14.7 Small Enterprises

Small enterprises include Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises as
defined in Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act 2006 as
amended from time to time.

‘B.
STRATEGIES ENVISAGED

15.1 Promote Collective Farming

The Government of Tamil Nadu, through its Collective Farming Scheme
and such other initiatives will encourage collaborative farming and

-14-
integration with cultivators, especially Farmer Producer Organizations
(FPOs) / Cooperatives / Farmer Producer Groups (FPGs) for the benefit of
farmers and industry so that the raw material production gets augmented
and the interests of both the stakeholders are equally taken into
consideration.

15.2 Contract Farming Act

Government of Tamil Nadu is in the process of enacting the Tamil Nadu
Agriculture Produce and Livestock Contract and Services (Promotion and
Facilitation) Act 2018 to encourage contract farming for the mutual benefit of
farmer producers and processors.

15.3 Supply Chain Management for Fruits and Vegetables

Government of Tamil Nadu is
establishing a network of primary
processing centres to connect farm gates
with the terminal markets/food
processing centres in a Hub-and-Spoke ,
model in 10 Districts for Vegetables and

Fruits. This will facilitate a seamless
marketing logistics support to both farmer producers and food processors in
the supply chain.

15.4 Commodity Based Cluster Development

In order for farmers to take advantage of development of food
processing industry and to make raw material available to the industry,
the Government of Tamil Nadu will develop commodity based clusters and
enable food processing industry to tap the food production strengths of
respective locations. This will also help address critical issues such as human
capital, workforce, logistics, infrastructure planning, community
development and availability of raw material. Spatial integration of the
clusters and food parks will be ensured so as to reduce wastage in post-
harvest handling and effective backward and forward integration. Farmer
Producer Organizations (FPOs) will be encouraged to take part in the cluster
development programme.

-15-
15.5. Infrastructure Development

The existing infrastructure facilities particularly those connected with
the handling of perishables like fruits, vegetables, meat, fish, poultry etc., will
be augmented to facilitate faster growth of food processing sector. Besides,
financial incentives will be provided to incentivize private sector players to
create infrastructure like cold storage, reefer trucks, sorting / grading
systems etc.

15.6 Incentives

In addition to the existing incentives / subsidies for the food processing
industries as provided by Central Government, additional incentives /
subsidies are provided by the Government of Tamil Nadu as described
separately in this Policy. Further, the concessions / incentives provided in the
State Industrial Policy etc. will also be suitably applied for Food Processing
Industries and Food Packaging Industries.

15.7 Convergence with Other Schemes

DAM8&AB will facilitate convergence of start-up MSMEs and other
entrepreneurs with the schemes of Government of India like Pradhan Mantri
Kisan SAMPADA Yojana
(Scheme for Agro Marine
Processing and Development
of Agro Processing Clusters
-SAMPADA), Ministry of Food
Processing Industries
(MoFPI), Micro Small and
Medium Enterprises (MSME),
National Horticulture Board
(NHB), National Horticulture
Mission (NHM), etc., in
addition to the benefits available under this Policy, subject to assistance not
exceeding 50% of project cost except in cases where assistance allowed is
already above 50%.

15.8. Ease of Doing Business

The Government shall introduce the following set of initiatives to ease
the compliance procedures for new and existing food processing companies.

-16-
15.8.1 Single Window Clearance facilitation

(a) For small Industries, the single clearance desk at Directorate of
Industries and Commerce and for large industries, the Single
Window Clearance under Tamil Nadu Industrial Guidance and
Export Promotion Bureau would be applicable.

(b) A Facilitation Desk to liaise with these two entities and facilitate
clearance for Food Processing Industries proposals will be set up by
Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business.

15.8.2 Labour Concessions to be extended

Existing labour related concessions and standards under the
TN Industrial Policy 2014 will be applicable to the Food Processing Industries.

15.9 Promotion of Food Parks

Government of Tamil Nadu has initiated action to set up Food Processing
Parks through the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri
Business in various regions of the State. These parks will be
the hubs for processing of Fruits and
Vegetables, Fisheries sector, Poultry,
Dairy, Meat, etc. The State Government

will undertake site development
activities like internal roads, drainage,
..
water supply, electricity
supply, solid waste
management plant,
effluent treatment plant, camtatere

telecommunication facilities

Tiruppur

etc. Food parks will also be
provided with need based
common infrastructure facilities
like Food Testing Labs, Quality
Control Units including Residual
Analysis Testing Units, Market
Yards, Trade Facilitation Centres,
Logistics, Pack Houses, Cold
Storages, Export and Import

Proposed
d Food Parks in

centers etc., Developed Industrial Tamil Nadu

-17-
Plots of various sizes will be offered at concessional rates to entrepreneurs
including Farmer Producer Companies, Private Food Processors, Packaging
Industries, etc., to invest in the Food Parks.

Food Processing Parks will be setup in 3 categories as follows
15.9.1 Small Food Parks (SFPs)

Food Parks which are set up in an area of upto 10 acres are designated as
SFPs. Land and common facilities will generally be developed by the
Government. SFPs will be eligible for capital subsidy as per Tamil Nadu
Industrial Policy, 2014 depending on the level of investment and are eligible
to avail grants and subsidies under Government of India schemes.

15.9.2 Mega Food Parks (MFPs)

Food Parks which are set up in an area between 10 acres and 50 acres
with minimum of 20 processing units will be designated as MFP. Land will be
developed by the Government
whereas common facilities may be
developed either by private
entrepreneurs or by the Government
of Tamil Nadu. MFPs will be eligible for
capital subsidy as per Tamil Nadu
Industrial Policy, 2014 depending on
the level of investment and are
eligible to avail grants and subsidies
under Government of India schemes.

15.9.3 Ultra Mega Food Parks (UMFPs)

Food Parks which are set up in an area more than 50 acres with a
minimum of 30 food processing units will be designated as UMFPs. UMFP will
be provided with modern state-of-the-art food processing zones with
common processing facilities, market infrastructure and farmer facilitation
centers. Land for the processing zones may be developed either by private
entrepreneurs or by Government. UMFPs will be eligible for capital subsidy as
per Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy, 2014 depending on the level of investment
and are eligible to avail grants and subsidies under Government of India
schemes.

-18 -
a
‘.
INCENTIVES AND SUPPORT MEASURES

16.1. Land allotment

a) Priority will be given for allotment of land to Food Processing
units in SIPCOT / SIDCO lands and Industrial complexes as per
Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy, 2014.

b) Mega Food Processing enterprises with investment above Rs.10
crores are eligible for long lease of upto 99 years of

SIPCOT / SIDCO lands [ff ] ——s - —
for establishment of ba oxe <
food processing parks. / ,

Cc) Small and micro
enterprises are eligible
for outright sale or lease
based sale as per extant
SIDCO policy.

16.2. Provision of Water Supply

Water will be made available on priority basis to Food Processing
Industries.

16.3. Provision of Power Supply

Electrical Power of consistent quality is an important input for food
processing industries across its value chain. Government of Tamil Nadu is
committed to supply 24x7 reliable quality power to the Food Processing
Industry.

16.4. Extension of Capital Subsidy

To catalyze investment in the Food Processing Industry, Capital subsidy will
be provided as per the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy in vogue.

16.5 Provision of Interest Subsidy

For food processing units and cold chain infrastructure, Primary
Processing Centres, Primary Collection Centres, etc., Government of Tamil
Nadu will provide interest subvention of 3% per annum on the term loan

-19-
availed for fixed capital investment. If Government of India's interest subsidy
is also available, the Food Processing Industry may avail either the Gol
subsidy or the State Subsidy referred to above according to suitability.

16.6. Increased interest subsidy for Women or Scheduled Castes /
Scheduled Tribes Entrepreneurs

New enterprises led by Women or Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes
Entrepreneurs are eligible for an additional interest subvention of 2% per
annum on the term loan availed for fixed capital investment.

16.7 Tax Incentives - SGST

The Government of Tamil Nadu will reimburse the gross State Goods and
Services Tax (SGST) paid by the New Industrial Units with an investment
above Rs.10 crore excluding land cost for processing of Fruits & Vegetables,
Medicinal plants, Minor Millets, Meat, Poultry and Fish for 3 years from the
date of commencement of business. In the case of units with higher
investment, Tax Incentive Policy adopted for larger industries under
TN Industrial Policy 2014 shall apply.

16.8 Stamp Duty exemption

Stamp duty exemption as existing in the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy,
2014 will be applicable to Food Processing Industries in the notified Food
Parks and also in the other notified Industrial Parks.

16.9 Market Fee exemption

Fruits and vegetables that are purchased directly from Farmer Producer
Organizations (FPOs) and brought to Food parks for processing will be
exempted from Market Fee.

16.10. Marketing Assistance

a) Necessary Technical Assistance will be provided to the Food

Processing Industries in branding, packaging, training, etc., by the
Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business

b) Subsidies applicable to Micro Small and Medium Enterprises
(MSMEs) under the Department of Industries and Commerce are
applicable for Food Processing Industries, such as,

(i) Exemption in Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) for participation
of tenders

(ii) Granting 50% subsidy for hall rent for participation in
exhibitions.

c) 50% cost of participation in trade fairs and exhibitions in Tamil Nadu
will be reimbursed, as applicable.

16.11. Quality Certification/Patent Registration facilitation

Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, Government
of Tamil Nadu, will assist Food Processing Industries in getting quality
certification as per MSME norms or as per other applicable norms in vogue.

16.12 Transportation assistance

Government of Tamil Nadu will facilitate subsidies provided under
Ministry of Food Processing Industries, National Horticulture Mission (NHM),
and Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH), etc., for the
purchase of reefer vehicles to food processing units.

16.13 Export Incentives

The export incentives offered to Micro Small and Medium Enterprises
(MSMEs) under Department of Industries and Commerce or as per other
applicable norms in vogue are eligible to food processing units also.

16.14 Skill Development Initiatives for worker in the Industry

The Food Processing Units within Food Processing Parks will be eligible to
avail the financial support for providing skill building training to the new
employees under State Skill Building Mission.

16.15 Research and Development and Testing Labs to be facilitated

Government of Tamil Nadu shall endeavor to set-up Research &
Development Laboratories and Quality Testing Laboratories as a common
facility in Food Parks. The latest technology developed by Tamil Nadu
Agricultural University and other State Universities will also be prioritized for
these laboratories.

-21-
Annexure -I

Value Added Products

An indicative list of value added products that can be derived from
various Horticultural, Agricultural, Dairy, Poultry and Fish products is
highlighted below :

FRUITS

1. MANGO Pulp, Concentrate, Juice, Squash, Pickle, Jam,
Jelly, Candy, Dehydrated Slices, Mango frozen

2. BANANA Juice, Chips, Puree, Jam, Jelly, Banana Cheese,
Flour

3. PAPAYA Papaya Puree, Ready to Serve (RTS) Juice,
Pickle, Jam, Jelly, Squash, Concentrate, Tutty
Fruity.

4. | GUAVA Jam, Jelly, Candy, Pulp, Juice, Concentrate

5. LIME Pickles, Juice, Dried Lime Peel

6. COCONUT Water, Milk, Milk Powder, Desiccated coconut,
Chips, Candy, Flour, Neera

7. | CASHEWNUT Dried nuts, Nut powder, Candy, Shell liquid

8. POMEGRANATE Ready to Serve (RTS) Juice, Jam, Jelly, Frozen
Arils,

9. | OILPALM Edible Oil, Sludge oil

10. | TAMARIND Concentrate, , Tamarind Slabs Pulp, Paste

Vegetables and Spices

1. | TOMATO Puree, Ketchup, Sauce, Jam, Paste, Dried
Powder

2: ONION Onion Flakes, Powder, Paste

3. CARROT Diced Carrot

4. | TAPIOCA Sago, Starch Powder, Starch Syrup

1. | CHILLI Chilli Sauce, Pickle, Chilli Powder

2. | TURMERIC Powder, Turmeric Dried Rhizomes, Curcumin.

-22-
Agriculture Crops

1. RICE Rice Flour, Rice Bran Oil, Parboiled Rice, Rice
Flakes.

2. SUGAR CANE Raw Sugar, Juice

3. MAIZE Corn Syrup, Corn Flour, Corn Flakes, etc.

4. GROUNDNUT Edible Oil, Dried Powder, Cheese/ Puree
Animal Husbandry

a) | DAIRY Cheese, Ice Cream, Pasteurized and Flavoured
Milk, Butter, Paneer, Ghee, Butter Milk, Curd

b) | POULTRY Egg Powder, Processed Chicken

c) | SHEEP/ GOAT Processed Meat

Fisheries
1. FISH Seaweed, Lobsters, Prawns, Inland Fish, Fish

Fingers etc.,

-23-

Annexure - II

Items and activities covered under the Policy

pono fs oN

a
NF Oo

13.

14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23:
24.

25:
26.

Cereal and Pulse based product including instant mix.
Meat and Fish Processing.

Fruits and Vegetable Processing Industries.

Nuts and Oil Seeds Processing.

Protein Foods.

Starch Derivatives.

Spice Products.

Bread and Biscuits.

Potato Chips.

. Roasted and Salted Cashew Nuts.
. Papain Powder.
. Fruit, Vegetable processing including dehydration, Individual Quick

Freezing (IQF) and preservation, export in fresh form including grading
sorting and cleaning.

Cold chain cold storage systems used for transport and storage of agro
based products.

Tissue culture-specific to crops for food processing industries.

Hybrid seeds - specific to crops for food processing industries.

Poultry / Egg Processing.

Milk based Products.

Processing, preservation and packing of fish and other products.
Promotion of modern and hygienic packing of food products.

Distillation and fermentation of agro based products like grapes.
Additives / preservatives / colours / fragrances for the food industry.
Ready to eat / cook, convenience foods, including millet based products.
Health Food, Health Drinks, Energy Drinks

Nutraceuticals, Functional Foods, Dietary Supplements and Food
Additives.

Consumer food products like Bakery, Confectionery items.

Medicinal Preparations with Herbs, Medicinal and Aromatic Plants,
Forest Products.

- 24 -
Annexure - III

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA INCENTIVES

A. Pradhan Mantri Kisan SAMPADA Yojana - Scheme for Agro-
Marine Processing and Development of Agro Processing
Cluster(SAMPADA)

[Ministry of Food Processing Industry, GOI - Scheme grant in aid details as
per F.No.16 -MFPI/ 14 - Mega FP dated 19.05.2017. (www.mofpi.nic.in) ]

Cold Chain and
Value Addition

including pack houses,
pre-cooling units,

Sl. Scheme ‘ . 3
No. Name Financial Assistance
1. Mega 50% of eligible project cost in general areas and
Food 75% in NE Region. Subject to a maximum of
Park Rs. 50 crores per project.
(Ongoing)
2. |Integrated Storage infrastructure | 35% of the total cost

of plant and
machinery and

Infrastructure. | ripening chamber and_ | technical civil works in
(Ongoing) transport General areas and
infrastructure. 50% for NE region and

difficult areas.

Value addition and
processing infra-
structure including
frozen storage/deep
freezers associated
and integral to the
processing

50% of the total cost
of plant and
machinery and
technical civil works in
General areas and
75% for NE region and
difficult areas

Subject to a maximum of Rs.10 Crore per

project

-25-

ss tls Financial Assistance

Name
Creation/ 35% of the cost of plant and machinery and
expansion of technical civil works in General areas and 50%
Food for NE region and difficult areas. Subject to a

Processing and
Preservation

maximum of Rs.5.00 crore per project

Capacities.

4. | Infrastructure | Basic Enabling 35% of eligible project
for Agro Infrastructure : cost in Beneral areas
Processing Development of and 50 % in NE region.
Clusters industrial plots, Subject toa

boundary wall, roads,
drainage, water
supply, electricity
supply including power
backup, effluent
treatment plant
parking bay, weigh
bridges, common
office space, etc.,

maximum of
Rs.10.00 crore per
project.

Core infrastructure
common facilities :

Testing laboratory,
cleaning, grading,
sorting and packing
facilities, dry ware
house, cold storage,
pre-cooling chambers,
ripening chambers,
steam generation
boilers, IQF,
specialized packaging,
etc.,

- 26 -

Sl. Scheme . . .
No. Name Financial Assistance
5. |Creation of Minimum processing | 35% of eligible project
Backward and facilities at farm level cost in general areas
Forward Distribution hub and =| and 50% in NE region.
Linkages retail outlets Subject to a
. . maximum of
Mobile pre-cooling
trucks and reefer Rs. 0° SSne PEE
trucks proj
6, |Food safety and Quality Assurance Infrastructure

Setting up /
Upgradation
of Quality
Control/ Food
Testing
Laboratories
Grant in aid

Central/State
Government
organizations/
universities

100% of the cost of
equipment

includes
Technical civil
works, Private organizations/ | 50% of the cost of
furniture & universities equipment for others
fixtures in general areas and
70% in NE region

ii. |Hazard Reimbursement of expenditure @ 50% of eligible

Analysis & project cost in general areas and 75% in

Critical Control
Points
(HACCP)/ ISO
Standards/
Food
safety / Quality
Management
systems.

NE region. Subject to a maximum of Rs.17.00
lakh and Rs.22.00 lakh respectively.

-27-

Sl. Scheme . . .

No. Name Financial Assistance

7, |Human Resources and Institutions

i. |Research Government 100% of cost of
Development in| organizations / equipment,

Food universities / consumables and
Processing institutions expenditure related to
sector project for a period of
three years
Private organizations / | 50% equipment cost
universities / in general areas and
institutions 70% in NE states.

ii. |Promotional All India level seminars, | 50% of the cost of the
Activities, workshops, fairs and event or maximum
Advertisements,| exhibition Rs.5.00 lakh
Publicity,

Studies & Studies/Surveys Grant in aid shall be
Surveys decided on the merit
of the proposal.

iii. | Skill Development of course | Rs 5.00 lakh per
Development curriculum for training } Qualification packs for

modules development

Infrastructure for Skill | 50% of cost of plant

training centers and machinery.
Subject to a
maximum of
Rs.15.00 lakh per
training module and
limited to two training
modules per training
centre.

iv. |Strengthening National Institute of Rs.100.00 crore for

of Institutions

Food Technology,
Entrepreneurship and
Management
(NIFTEM)

creation of academic
and administrative
infrastructure.

Indian Institute of
Food Processing
Technology (IIFPT)

Rs.75.00 crore to
expand its activities
and programmes.

- 28 -

NODAL AGENCY
Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business
Guindy, Chennai - 600 032.
Phone : 044 2225 3865, E-mail : tnsnamd@gmail.com

