      GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




        TAMIL NADU
FOOTWEAR & LEATHER PRODUCTS
          POLICY
            2022


   INDUSTRIES, INVESTMENT PROMOTION
      AND COMMERCE DEPARTMENT



          GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
Contents
CONTENTS
1. Preamble
1.1   Introduction                                      1
1.2   Advantage Tamil Nadu                              2
1.3   Need for the Policy                               4
1.4   Scope of the Policy                               5


2. Objectives
2.1   Vision                                            6
2.2   Goals                                             6
2.3   Mission                                           6


3. Ecosystem Development
3.1   Policy Levers for Non-Leather Footwear            7
3.2   Policy Levers for Leather Footwear and Products   8
3.3   Other Policy Levers                               9


4. Incentives
4.1   Special Package for FLP Manufacturing             11
4.2   Incentives for FLP Design Centres                 17


5. Incentives for MSME                                  18


6. Implementation                                       19


Annexure I

Annexure II
 Deﬁnitions
 Clusters
 Clusters are geographical concentrations of inter-connected enterprises and associated institutions that
 face common challenges and opportunities. Clusters consist of a critical mass of enterprises located in
 geographical proximity to each other and enterprises within them share many common features. Besides
 enterprises, clusters also include support institutions, such as Business associations, Business
 Development Service (BDS) providers, Financial service providers, including banks, Public authorities such
 as local, regional and national governments and regulatory agencies, Training agencies such as vocational
 schools, universities, etc1 .


 The definitions of EFA and Employment from Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021
 (TNIP 2021) are applicable to this policy and are summarized below for reference:

 Eligible Fixed Assets
 Eligible Fixed Assets (EFA) shall mean and include land (including development costs such as fencing,
 construction of internal roads, and other basic infrastructure facilities); permanent buildings; plants,
 indigenous machinery & equipment, imported equipment, computer equipment, material handling
 equipment (like forklifts, cranes, etc); tools, dies, moulds, jigs, and fixtures and similar production tools
 owned and used within the plant or elsewhere within Tamil Nadu; appliances; electrical installations;
 pollution control, quality control and laboratory equipment; fixtures, tubes, pipes, fittings, and storage
 tanks, to the extent paid for by the project (For more details refer to Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021,
 Annexure IV).


 Employment
 Employment shall mean all jobs that are performed by Direct Employees and Contract Labour (For more
 details refer to Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021, Annexure IV).




1 https://www.unido.org/sites/default/files/files/2020-09/Clusters_Brochure.pdf
    1. Preamble
    1.1. Introduction
    The art and industry of leather-making is timeless. The oldest records of Tamil Nadu’s tryst with
    leather-making date back to the Sangam Age in 500 BC, when tanned leather was used for armour,
    covers of music instruments, travel cases and footwear2 . The traditional knowledge, when combined
    with technology and labour intensive modern production methods, led to a burgeoning leather
    industry. Since the mid-19th century, leather products and footwear industry has been one of the
    cornerstones of Tamil Nadu’s rise as a major industrial hub. It was, in fact, Tamil Nadu (Madras
    Presidency, at the time) that contributed to India’s prominence in leather exports with the innovative
    use of vegetable dyeing in leather manufacturing. Today, while other legacy leather clusters struggle
    for survival, Tamil Nadu stands tall and continues to flourish owing to its resilient supply chains and
    diversification strategies.


    Consequently, Tamil Nadu has emerged as a natural leader in the footwear segment, contributing 26%
    to the national output3 . It can be attributed to the organic development of clusters in the State,
    encompassing a variety of organizational structures for the production of leather and leather products
    in hubs like Chennai, Ambur, Ranipet, Vaniyambadi, Trichy, and Dindigul and established parks for
    footwear manufacutring such as Cheyyar and Bargur.


    It is said that most global fashion brands have a connection to Tamil Nadu. Footwear of well-known
    luxury brands such as Louis Vuitton, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Clarks, Cole Haan, Daniel Hechter, Bugatti,
    Prada, Zara, Coach, Tommy Hilfiger, Hush Puppies, Ecco, Johnston & Murphy, Hugo Boss, Pierre Cardin,
    and Florsheim, are either manufactured in Tamil Nadu or the raw materials are sourced from the State.


    With growing opportunities in the ever-expanding global footwear market, India is striving to position
    itself as a manufacturing hub and cater to the rapidly evolving customer needs, domestically and
    globally. Tamil Nadu has the highest rate of urbanisation nationally, with more than 50% of the
    population residing in urban areas. In FY 2020-21,the State’s per capita income was 94% higher than
    the national average. The growing health consciousness among the urban population is driving the
    growth in sports and sustainable footwear market. Rapid urbanization, rising disposable incomes, and
    increasing media penetration are altering fashion preferences of consumers.


    Tamil Nadu’s diversified manufacturing base in footwear and leather products gives it an edge over
    others. Given the sectors’ large employment and export potential, it is an engine of growth for rural
    economies, driven by higher participation of women in the industrial workforce. This dovetails with the
    Government’s continued interest in promoting the sector. The State’s economic and demographic
    profile provides a compelling opportunity and a level playing field for global original design
    manufacturers and domestic leather manufacturers catering to the domestic and export markets.


    The State envisages the development of footwear clusters within the State, catering to the needs of
    both leather and non-leather footwear manufacturing companies. This Policy also aims to encourage
    establishment of footwear design studios in the footwear clusters to enable higher value addition.




    2. Ramalingam, D. “A Study on the Effects of Leather Industry in Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu.” Proceedings of the Indian History Congress 77 (2016)
1   3. ASI 2017-18
1.2. Advantage Tamil Nadu
Tamil Nadu is the second largest economy in India, a leader in the traditional leather sector and is
championing the growth in footwear. The State has a well established industrial ecosystem of
high-performing sectors such as Electronics, Textiles, Information Technology, Auto-Mobiles and
Auto-Components. It offers a host of advantages in terms of human capital, knowledge and research
infrastructure, diversified economy, and favourable investment climate. These are enlisted below:

•       Education Ecosystem- Tamil Nadu has 59 universities, 2639 colleges, 860 standalone institutes, 200
        central and State research institutes, 2 central universities, and 7 institutes of national importance.
        Tamil Nadu also supports quality manpower supply to Leather Footwear and Products manufacturing.
        Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI) in Chennai is a Council of Scientific & Industrial Research
        (CSIR) institute that has an exclusive Show and Product Design Centre with well-equipped Gait
        Laboratory, CAD/CAM centre, Design and Development facilities, Product fabrication pilot plant and
        Training facilities. The State also houses institutes such as Footwear Design & Development Institute
        (FDDI), Central Footwear Training Institute (CFTI) and National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT)
        that offers quality training programs and courses, and generates industry ready employees and
        professionals for Leather products and footwear companies.


•       Human Capital Hub- 9 lakh students graduating on average every year from various levels such as
        PhD, M Phil, Post-Graduate, Graduate, and Diploma. Tamil Nadu is one of the few states to have more
        female researchers than male researchers (PhD, M.Phil., and Post-Graduates).


•       Good Governance- With the commitment to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the
        State is widely acknowledged for according importance to safety, liberty, justice, environment and
        human life. Tamil Nadu is among the top ranking States in Ease of Doing Business. The Government of
        Tamil Nadu is undertaking an active role in building strong and consistent Environmental, Social, and
        Governance (ESG) compliance systems across sectors, industries and government departments, as
        well as across multiple governence and administrative levels.


•       Leader in Leather Production - Manufacturing of leather and leather products such as tanning and
        dressing of leather, luggage, handbags, saddlery, and harness in Tamil Nadu contributes 32% of the
        national output4.


•       Leader in Footwear Production- Highest number of footwear manufacturing factories in India housing
        nearly 27% (674) of the factories in this segment.


•       Strong Industrial Linkages- Well established industries such as automobiles, furniture and garmenting
        that have forward linkages with leather products; tanneries, chemicals manufacturing and heavy
        engineering serve as backward linkages for this segment.


•       Leader in Footwear Exports-Tamil Nadu’s share in the national footwear exports has been the highest
        among all the states with an average of 45% for last 5 years. Leading players in leather footwear
        manufacturing in the State are also investing in non-leather products manufacturing. The share of the
        non-leather footwear to the total Footwear Exports in the State has increased consistently i.e. 19 % in
        2017-18 to 28% in 2020-21.



    4. ASI 2017-18

                                                                                                              2
•   Women Participation in Workforce- Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) 2018-19 reported that rural
    Female Labour Force Participation Rate (FLFPR) within the State was 35.1 %, i.e. 15.4 % points higher than
    the national figure. Urban FLFPR in Tamil Nadu was 23.6 %, i.e. 7.5 % points higher than urban FLFPR
    recorded nationally. While at the national level, 30% of labour engaged in footwear manufacturing are
    women5 ,70% of Tamil Nadu’s workforce in footwear manufacturing are women6.


•   Employment Generation- As per a report released by the Department for the Promotion of Industry and
    Internal Trade (DPIIT), the footwear sector has the capacity to generate 250 jobs for every investment of
    Rs.1 crore. Additionally, for every 1,000 pairs of footwear produced and sold in India per day, the sector can
    create 425 jobs spanning manufacturing, allied industries, and retail. Given the availability of the skilled
    workforce in the State, Tamil Nadu is an ideal location for employment intensive sectors such as Footwear
    Manufacturing.


•   Testing Centres- The State has a number of testing centres such as FDDI, CLRI, Intertek etc with
    international collaborations. These Centres are well equipped with state of art testing equipment and
    offer complete range of testing for standards in footwear and footwear components manufacturing and
    leather products.




    5. White Paper- Footwear Industry in India: report prepared by KPMG for the Development Commissioner, MSME, Ministry of MSME
3   6. ASI 2017-18
1.3 Need for the Policy
Tamil Nadu has traditionally been a frontrunner in manufacturing of leather products. However, there has
been a steady rise in synthetic leather and fibre finished goods manufacturing nationally and globally.
While the State recognizes the importance of the leather industry, it is also important that the sizeable
workforce available with the leather sector is upskilled to take advantage of the employment
opportunities in non-leather industries.


The global footwear industry is expected to grow by 5.5%7. India, being the second-largest producer of
footwear in the world, has huge opportunities to capture the global sustainable footwear and sports
footwear market which is growing at almost 5% annualy . India has the potential to grow up to eight times
its current size by 20308.


India is also the second-largest consumer of footwear but ranks 5th as an exporter with a share of 1.9% in
global exports. The countries with higher exports are China, Vietnam, Indonesia, and Germany with a
collective share of 77.6 % in global exports9. This implies that domestic producers have a huge opportunity
to cater to global demand. With recent developments in geopolitics, the State is well placed to attract
international players in the footwear manufacturing sector.


Tamil Nadu is a dominant player in the footwear industry at both the national and global levels,
accounting for 26% of the national manufacturing output and 48% of the national exports. The existing
footwear manufacturing clusters in Tamil Nadu can be leveraged to address the growing domestic
demand and export requirements for footwear.


With the global trend shifting towards non-leather footwear, the State needs to further boost the segment
to leverage international market opportunities. There is a felt need for clusters in the footwear sector
within the State that creates benefits through agglomeration effects and economic spillovers. currently
the footwear sector relies on imports of various inputs such as ornaments, zippers, soles, buckles, and
embellishments. Hence, the State needs to support a robust omni channel for leather products and
footwear manufacturing that can quickly adapt to the changes in the market. A strong disruption resilient
supply chain will help the sector rely less on imports.


Further, there is a component of information asymmetry among the local manufacturers who do not have
much exposure to the international market. A cluster based approach can reduce the cost of information
for sub-large and large local players. The leather footwear manufacturers and exporters must be
encouraged and supported to take sustainable ways of production to thrive the international competition.


A dedicated policy focussing on footwear manufacturing will increase the productivity of existing players
and make Tamil Nadu the most favoured destination for footwear exporters. By increasing investment in
advanced technology, manufacturers can achieve global competitiveness and meet international quality
standards.




7, 8. Invest India Report: Non-Leather Footwear Industry in India (Published on 9th sep 2020)
9. World Footwear Year Book 2020                                                                              44
1.4 Scope othe Policy
Tamil Nadu Footwear and Leather Products Policy 2022 shall cover manufacturing units under the

following three broad segments:

    1)     Footwear
     i.    Non-Leather Footwear
     ii.   Leather Footwear
     iii. Ancillary units exclusively supplying their finished products to the footwear companies such as
           buttons and snap fasteners, inlay cards, buckles, eyelets, hooks, rivets, sequin, embroidery thread,
           stones, toggles, stud elastic cloth, ornaments, embellishments, zips, etc. Processing units of
           non-leather, such as polyurethane leather, and component manufacturing units such as upper
           stitching units, stock fitting facility, fly knit factory, mould factory, ornament factory, lace factory,
           sole factory, footbed factory, etc. supplying to footwear manufacturers shall also be considered as
           ancillary units.

    2)     Leather Products
     i.    Leather Accessories and Finished Goods (such as handbags, wallets, purses, travel goods, gloves,
           upholstery etc.)
     ii.   Leather Garments
     iii. Saddlery and Harness

    3)     Footwear and Leather Products Design Studios

Tanneries and leather pre-processing units shall be considered under this Policy only if they are a part of
an integrated unit of Leather Footware and Leather Products manufacturing.
This Policy shall be valid until 31.03.2025. The Policy may be periodically revised from time
to time.




5
5
2. Objectives
2.1 Vision
Transform Tamil Nadu into the most favoured destination for manufacturing of Footwear and Leather
Products in Asia.


2.2 Goals
The Government of Tamil Nadu has set the following targets for the policy term:
•   Attract Rs. 20,000 crores investment in Footwear and Leather Products manufacturing.
•   Attract 2,00,000 jobs in the footwear segment.


2.2 Mission
•   Create a conducive ecosystem and resilient supply chain for footwear manufacturing by supporting
    infrastructure in terms of clusters, parks and common facilities.
•   Enhance the Non-Leather Footwear and Component ecosystem by supporting the ancillary units.
•   Boost and upskill the labour supply in Footwear and Leather Products manufacturing through
    dedicated skilling programs.
•   Encourage exports of Footwear and Leather Products, especially the export of Non-Leather Footwear.
•   Encourage and support technology upgradation in the leather sector to diversify to Non-Leather
    Footwear and high value added Leather Products.
•   Improve ease of doing business for the Footwear and Leather Products manufacturing units.




                                                                                                     66
3. Ecosystem Development
The export share of non-leather footwear in the footwear segment has shown a steady rise in India over
the years. However, the national demand for footwear and its accessories is predominantly serviced
through imports. Given the global realignment of supply chains in the post-Covid era, it is an opportune
time for the State to capitalise on the global diversification of Non-Leather Footwear and augment
indigenous manufacturing capabilities in value-added products of leather. The Government of Tamil
Nadu strives to encourage ecosystem development of both Non-Leather Footwear, Leather Footwear and
Leather Products through targeted interventions for each segment and broad-based policy levers.


3.1 Policy Levers for Non-Leather Footwear
The Cluster based development approach has been recognized as a success where the production
process is fragmented. This approach leads to growth that creates opportunities and enables small
manufacturers to take advantage of opportunities through agglomeration. The cluster development
model has been successful in Tamil Nadu with over 89 projects establishing common facility centres and
infrastructure. The State will identify land parcels in strategic locations to create new clusters for
Non-Leather Footwear with dedicated skilling support.


3.1.1 Green Field Clusters
The Government of Tamil Nadu will create new Non-Leather Footwear clusters in the form of Footwear
Parks of 30-50 acres, with plug-and-play facilities, through its agencies such as SIPCOT/SIDCO and
public-private partnerships.


The Footwear Parks will house the footwear manufacturing units along with supporting/processing
industries for various segments in the supply chain. This will ensure higher value addition in footwear
manufacturing with quality that can meet international export standards. A detailed list of proposed
facilities and factories within the cluster is provided in Annexure 1. The Government will enable enhanced
connectivity for industries that are located outside the clusters due to different resource or compliance
requirements but are an essential part of the supply chain. The Government shall ensure adequate and
uninterrupted water supply to the manufacturing units.


Further, given the high women participation in the sector, it is necessary to provide safe and affordable
accommodation to women industrial workers. Therefore, working women hostels will be developed in or
around the clusters by SIPCOT with funding from the Tamil Nadu Shelter Fund.


3.1.2 Skilling
Tamil Nadu is the knowledge hub for footwear design and manufacturing in the country. The State is
home to FDDI, CFTI and NIFT that offer quality training programs and courses, and generate industry
ready employees and professionals for leather products and footwear companies. With the targeted
increase in manufacturing capacity and capability, the Government shall endeavour to increase the
supply of skilled labour and upskill the existing workforce. The State will institute upskilling programmes
for workers at the shop floor level through the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC), State
polytechnic institutes and ITIs, and training programs for managerial and supervisory level through
appropriate institutes. The State will also support the establishment of training facilities within or near the
footwear clusters.

7
3.2 Policy Levers for Leather Footwear and Products
Tamil Nadu has been known for its prowess in Leather Finished Products, besides footwear. The State’s
share in manufacturing of leather and related products (tanning and dressing of leather, luggage,
handbags, saddlery and harness and dressing and dyeing of fur) is 32%, which is the highest amongest
states. To further encourage the Leather Products and Footwear manufacturing, the Government shall
develop a sustainable and shock resilient ecosystem comprising small clusters of leather products units
along with its ancillary industries such as ornaments, laces, buckles and embellishments. This shall make
sure the localization of the entire supply chain and reduce information asymmetry. The Government shall
also provide support to the allied industries that are part of the footwear supply chain but located outside
the clusters.


3.2.1 Brownfield Clusters
Tamil Nadu has witnessed organic cluster development in the leather sector in major production centres
such as Chennai, Ambur, Ranipet, Vaniyambadi, Trichy and Dindigul. In addition to developing greenfield
non-leather footwear clusters, the Government shall focus on developing and upgrading its the existing
leather clusters. Clustering is a recognized strategy to strengthen and consolidate sub-large players
through increased interconnectedness, healthy competition and cooperation. Therefore, the Government
shall undertake a study with the Council of Leather Exports to examine the existing gaps in the supply
chain of leather productsand footwear manufacturing supply chain. These gaps shall be addressed
through infrastructural development either by         Government initiatives or through public-private
partnerships.the footwear clusters.




                                                                                                               88
3.3 Other Policy Levers

3.3.1 Export Support for Footwear Manufacturing
Tamil Nadu Export Promotion Strategy 2021 identifies Footwear as a Champion Sector with high potential
for exports and employment. The strategy mentions the following promotion measures for footwear
exports.

•   Creation of supporting infrastructure such as design studios and quality control facilities, which will
    support exporters from Tamil Nadu to design products, thus enabling them to move up the value
    chain.
•   Develop mega leather clusters with well-equipped plug-and-play facilities, which can attract large
    players in the domestic and international markets to invest in the State.
•   Establishing customs facilities for the exporters to obtain the inspection clearances at the time of
    loading and before dispatch from their premises which will minimize the hassle of unloading
    containers for carrying out checks at the port /airport for export.
•   Creating skilled workforce through Centres of Excellence (CoEs) equipped with knowledge of
    cutting-edge technologies need to be set up in the leather clusters.
•   Provide marketing and branding support for footwear manufacturing participating in international
    trade fairs and conventions to market their products.


3.3.2 Traceability
The global value chains are realigning based on of geopolitical spheres of influence in addition to
comparative advantage. To navigate this realignment of long and complex value chains with minimal
disruptions, the traceability of supply chains becomes crucial. Supply chain traceability is the process of
tracking the journey of products and their inputs, from the very start of the supply chain to its end use.
Efficient traceability systems may include institutional arrangements that enable tracing of the
movement of a product through stages of production, processing and distribution.


Traceability provides information on provenance, authenticity, ethical credentials, and assurance of quality
to an extent. It has three key benefits - increased supply chain visibility, improved quality control systems
and reduced risks, including geopolitical risks. By recording the full history of production and distribution,
suppliers can react quickly to issues that may arise. This protects suppliers from legal action and
consumers from potentially non-standard products. For consumers to become more aware of how and
where products are made, transparency is key. Additionally, traceability provides an opportunity for a
company to credibly make and verify sustainability claims.


In order to focus on export competitiveness with a thrust towards quality and traceability, the Government
of Tamil Nadu will encourage traceability for leather products manufacturers through incentives to
support the manufacturers in tracking and recording the origin of products. Further, the Government, in
collaboration with Council for Leather Exports (CLE) and CLRI will conduct research on creation of
standards that works for both the environment and for local communities.

9
3.3.3 Logistics and Connectivity
The Government of Tamil Nadu through its various initiatives such as the Comprehensive Road
Infrastructure Development Programme, shall aim to improve road connectivity to footwear clusters. This
would enable faster transportation to EXIM gateways and enhanced rural labour mobility with reduced
per unit transportation cost.

The Government of Tamil Nadu through its agency, Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Ltd
(TIDCO) is developing an Integrated Logistics Plan for the State. The plan aims to establish an efficient and
robust logistics system by developing internal and trunk infrastructure for industrial clusters in the state.
This shall also include logistics and connectivity of brownfield and greenfield Leather and Footwear
Parks/Clusters. Further, eligible manufacturing units may avail funds from Industrial Ecosystem Fund to
develop last-mile connectivity.

Since July 2021, the Government has operationalised a scheme that enables working women in the State
to travel free of cost in government-owned city and town buses. As 70% of total workers in the footwear
manufacturing sector are women, women workers in these clusters shall benefit from this scheme.
The Government shall also endeavour to align the schedules of government buses in bus routes
connecting the greenfield and brownfield non-leather footwear and leather clusters to nearby towns and
villages to cater to the work-shifts of the manufacturing units, and start new bus routes, if required.

3.3.4 Marketing Assistance
The Government of Tamil Nadu shall support both MSMEs & large industrial Exporting Organisations in
Footwear and Leather Products sector in branding and promoting their products. The State shall also host
an annual international buyer-seller meet for the sector to provide them a platform for showcasing their
export products.

3.3.5 Ease of Doing Business
As part of the Ease of Doing Business initiatives, the new Single Window Portal (SWP) shall provide more
than 200 services (including sector-specific and sector-agnostic clearances) across 38 departments,
making the process completely faceless, contactless, and paperless. The clearances essential for Footwear
and Leather Products manufacturers have been onboarded on the new Single Window Portal providing a
one-stop-shop for Footwear manufacturing companies in the state.

The Government of Tamil Nadu has directed a ‘CTO scheme for green category industries’ under which
the green category industries can get direct consent to operate without applying for ‘Consent to
Establish’, similar to white category industries.

3.3.6 Funds for Sustainable Operations
The State has created various funds such as the Industrial Ecosystem Fund, Research and Technology
Fund    and Emerging Sector Seed Fund that can be availed by Footwear and Leather Products
manufacturing units for enhancing connectivity, funding sustainable operating practices, technological
upgradation, and seed funding for new or expansion projects. technological upgradation, and seed
funding for new or expansion projects.

                                                                                                                10
 4. Incentives
 The Tamil Nadu Leather and Footwear Products Policy 2022 shall offer special incentives for the following
 categories : -
         1. Special Package for Footwear and Leather Products (FLP) Manufacturing
         2. Incentives for FLP Design Studios


 4.1 Special Package for FLP Manufacturing
 Projects that are ‘Large’ or above in “B” and “C” Category Districts (Rs. 300 crore +) and ‘Mega’ and above
 in “A” Category Districts (Rs. 500 crore +) are eligible for the “Structured Package of Assistance” as per the
 Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy (TNIP) 2021. Footwear and Finished Leather Goods manufacturing qualify as
 sunrise sectors under TNIP 2021 and are eligible for “Special Incentives for Sunrise Sector” comprising
 Investment Promotion Subsidy, Land Cost Subsidy, Stamp Duty Incentive, Enhanced Incentive for Quality
 Certification, Enhanced Incentive for Intellectual Property Creation, Interest Subvention, Electricity Tax
 Exemption, and SGST Refund on Capital Goods.


 Considering the labour-intensive nature of the various segments of Footwear and Leather Products (FLP)
 manufacturing, the eligibility criteria for firms to apply for incentives shall be relaxed according to the
 following categories under the “Special Package for FLP Manufacturing” in this Policy.


Table 1 : Eligibility Criteria for Industry Catagories

     Industry Category                                                          Eligibility
     Type                                                Minimum Investment           Minimum Employment
                                                              (Rs. in cr.)                  (Jobs)

     Leather Footwear and Leather Products                          50                           2000

     Standalone Non-Leather Footwear                                50                           2000

     Component Cluster                                             300                           3000

     Allied Footwear Industries
                                                                    150                           100
     (Outside the Cluster)

 The minimum investment and employment commitment must be met by the unit(s) within a Standard
 Investment Period of 4 years.




11
     The Industry Category Type – Component Cluster has been included to encourage group investments in
     clusters and to create positive externalities through the agglomeration of units and localization of the
     supply chain. The Industry Category Type - Allied Footwear Industries has been included to encourage the
     manufacturing units that are essential part of footwear and leather product manufacturing supply chain
     but may operate outside the component cluster. The eligibility conditions to avail incentives under the
     Industry Categories – ‘Component Cluster’ and ‘Allied Footwear Industries’ are mentioned in Annexure II.

     A company can choose to avail incentives under “Special Package for FLP manufacturing” under this
     Policy or “Special Incentives for Sunrise Sector” under TNIP 2021, subject to satisfying the eligibility criteria
     of the applicable policy.

     Investments made from April 1, 2022, will be considered eligible for availing incentives. The “Special
     Package for FLP Manufacturing” will include the incentives applicable to Sunrise Sectors as per Section 14
     of TNIP 2021 with suitable relaxations/ provisions/ enhancements to include Sub-Large Projects and
     additional incentives specified, where applicable, as specified hereunder.




12                                                                                                                   12
                                                                                                                      12
 Special Incentives Applicable based on TNIP 2021 (with relaxations)
 The Special Incentives applicable to Sunrise Sectors as per Section 14 of TNIP 2021 with relaxations and
 additions are provided below:


 4.1.1 Investment Promotion Subsidy
 The FLP units can avail one of the following options for investment promotion – a) Turnover-based Subsidy
 or b) Fixed Capital Subsidy, subject to eligibility.


 a) Turnover-based Subsidy
 Considering the higher turnover to asset ratio in Footwear and Leather Products manufacturing, a
 turnover-based subsidy shall be applicable as a percentage of the turnover in each financial year for the
 following categories, subject to meeting the eligibility criteria for the applicable categories.




                          Table 2 : Turnover-based Subsidy (% Annual Turnover)


     Industry Category Type                              “B” Category District         “C” Category District

     Leather Footwear and Leather Products
                                                                   1.5%                         1.75%
     Manufacturing

     Standalone Non-Leather Footwear
                                                                  1.75%                             2%
     Manufacturing

     Component Cluster                                             1.5%                         1.75%



 The company can choose to avail the Turnover-based Subsidy from the date of commercial production or
 upon achieving the minimum eligible investment for Structured Package in the given Industry Category
 type, whichever is later, up to a cap of 4% of cumulative investment in Eligible Fixed Assets per annum for
 a period of 10 years.

 In case of Component Clusters, units within the designated component cluster shall be eligible to avail a
 Turnover-based Subsidy (as mentioned in Table 2 ) as applicable from the commencement of commercial
 production of all units within the component cluster, subject to a cap of 4% of cumulative investment in
 Eligible Fixed Assets (EFA). In case a unit chooses to avail the subsidy before the commercial production of
 all the units, the individual units will be eligible to avail 50% of the applicable incentives in a given year,
 from the commencement of commercial production of the individual unit, subject to a ceiling of 2% of its
 cumulative investment in EFA. Upon the commencement of commercial production of all the units, the
 balance 50% of applicable incentives shall be adjusted in the subsequent years over the incentive
 disbursal period. the Turnover-based Subsidy for expansion projects shall be determined on a
 case-to-case basis and the base volume principle will be applicable.




13                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                               13
     b) Fixed Capital Subsidy
     Industries allied to Footwear Manufacturing, or component industries located outside the clusters shall be
     eligible for a Fixed Capital Subsidy of 10% of investment in Eligible Fixed Assets to be disbursed in ten equal
     annual instalments. The company can choose to avail the Fixed Capital Subsidy from the date of
     commercial production or upon achieving the minimum eligible investment threshold of Rs.150 crores
     and minimum employment threshold of 100 jobs, whichever is later. If the company chooses to avail the
     Fixed Capital Subsidy prior to the completion of the investment and employment commitment, the Fixed
     Capital Subsidy shall be disbursed in tranches corresponding to the cumulative investment made until
     then and subsequent tranches for actual annual incremental investment within the investment period.




14
4.1.2 Training Subsidy
Skilling support can be availed in form of Training Subsidy of Rs. 4000 per worker per month for 6 months
for residents of Tamil Nadu. For women and transgender employees, persons with benchmarked
disabilities, persons from SC/ST communities the training subsidy shall be Rs. 6000 per worker per month
for 6 months.

4.1.3 Land Cost Subsidy
For eligible projects in SIPCOT estates, land allotment will be made with a 10% concession on SIPCOT’s rate
in “B” districts and with a 50% concession on the rate in “C” districts for land up to 20% of EFA. For private
land in “C” districts, 50% subsidy will be offered on the cost of land as per guideline value, up to an extent
of 50 acres and subject to land cost not exceeding 20% of EFA and a cap of Rs. 2 crores provided that at
least 70% of the land is used for manufacturing operations. In case the investor chooses to avail the land
cost subsidy, land will be excluded from Eligible Fixed Assets for the purpose of Investment Promotion
Subsidy.

4.1.4 Stamp Duty Incentive
100% stamp duty exemption will be given for lease or purchase of land/ shed/ buildings meant for
industrial use in land obtained from SIPCOT.in the case of private lands, stamp duty concession will be
given as a 100% back ended subsidy for upto 50 acres on fulfilment of investment and employment
commitment.

4.1.5 Enhanced Incentive for Quality Certificate
Projects obtaining certifications like ISO, ISI, BIS, FPO, BEE, AGMARK, and ECOMARK or any other national
or international certification shall be eligible for a subsidy of 50% of the total cost incurred for obtaining
the certification, as certified by the Chartered Accountant, limited to Rs. 1 crore for the period of
investment.

4.1.6 Enhanced Incentive for Intellectual Property Creation
The Government will reimburse 50% of the expenditure incurred by the Project for the investment period
for a patent, copyright, trademarks, Geographical Indicators registration subject to a maximum of Rs. 1 cr.
for the period of investment.

4.1.6 Enhanced Incentive for Intellectual Property Creation
The Government will reimburse 50% of the expenditure incurred by the Project for the investment period
for a patent, copyright, trademarks, Geographical Indicators registration subject to a maximum of Rs. 1
crore for the period of investment.

4.1.7 Interest Subvention
Interest Subvention of 5% as a rebate in the rate of interest shall be provided be on actual term loans taken
for the purpose of financing the project for a period of 6 years, subject to the limits provided in the next
Table.

Table 3 : Interest Subvention for Project Categories
                                                        Maximum Incentive Disbursal      Ceiling per annum
  Project Category                                            Period (Year)                 (Rs. Lakhs)

  Sub Large                                                         6                            5
  Large                                                             6                           20
  Mega                                                              6                           100

  Ultra-Mega                                                        6                          400
                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                             10
 4.1.8 Standard Incentives
 The Project shall also be eligible for standard incentives, namely, electricity tax exemption for 5 years (Para
 13.5.1 of TNIP 2021) and green industry incentives of up to Rs. 1 cr. (Para 13.5.3 of TNIP 2021). Projects availing
 the Enhanced Quality Certification/IP Incentive (section 4.1.5 and 4.1.6 of this policy) shall not be eligible for
 Quality Certification/IP Incentive under Standard Incentives, respectively.

 4.1.9 SGST Refund on Capital Goods
 The Project shall also be eligible for SGST refund on capital goods in case of inverted tax structure as
 specified in Para 13.6 as per TNIP 2021.

 4.1.10 Transport Subsidy
 Transport and logistics is a significant operating expenditure for companies. As per TNIP 2021, to facilitate
 the transition of foreign companies to Tamil Nadu, 75% of the cost incurred on transportation and logistics
 towards the relocation of capital goods from the source country to Tamil Nadu within the investment
 period, shall be reimbursed. It will be subject to a total limit of Rs. 10 crore.

 Additional Incentives over and above TNIP 2021

 4.1.11 Marketing Assistance
 Based on Tamil Nadu Exports Strategy 2021, for Large, Mega, and Ultra Mega projects firms (as per TNIP
 2021) operating in the State in Footwear and Leather Goods, the Government of Tamil Nadu shall
 reimburse 50% of the physical and digital marketing expenses of Footwear and Leather Products
 manufacturing units that export more than 50% of their products, capped to Rs. 20 lakhs per year per firm
 up to a period of 5 years.

 4.1.12 Traceability Incentive
 In order to support establishing an end-to-end system that enhances traceability by capturing
 information on provenance, authenticity, ethical credentials, and quality, 50% of the expenditure incurred
 on the purchase of a specialized software license for Traceability Systems or implementing the Traceability
 Systems within the Standard Investment Period of 4 years, shall be reimbursed subject to a ceiling of Rs.
 25 lakhs.




15
16
4.2 Incentives for FLP Design Centres
Footwear design is a creative endeavour of designing a shoe - both from a visual and technical aspect. A
well designed product has a higher possibility of success in the market. This includes identifying market
opportunities through customer feedback and future needs, clearly defining a problem or future need,
and determining whether to solve those problems or to meet future needs and this new solution. It
involves imagining, creating, and iterating new products by developing appropriate solutions, and
validating them with real end users. A good product design can not only enhance the competitiveness of
the company, but can also capture a major share of the market. Design is an important part of the value
chain, but it is still at a nascent stage in India. The rich tradition and legacy of the State provides numerous
opportunities for development of indigenous, contemporary and fusion designs that can capture the
domestic and international markets. In order to develop the design value chain, the State shall facilitate
and promote international design centres in the State through the following incentives for design centres
projects with investments of more than Rs. 10 crores and employment generation of 20 jobs within the
Standard Investment Period of 4 years.

4.2.1 Special Capital Subsidy
FLP Design Centres shall be eligible for a Fixed Capital Subsidy of 5% of investment in Eligible Fixed Assets
disbursed in five equal annual instalments upon completion of the minimum investment and
employment criteria..


4.2.2 Training Subsidy
Training subsidy of Rs 10,000 per month per designer shall be offered for 6 months for the residents of
Tamil Nadu subject to a maximum of 50 employees.


4.2.3 Lease Rental Support
Design Centres established in the greenfield or brownfield clusters will be eligible for reimbursement of
50% of rental expenses up to Rs. 30 lakhs per year within the Standard Investment Period.




                                                                                                               16
                                                                                                               17
 5. Incentives for MSME
The Government of Tamil Nadu offers a wide range of schemes and incentives for enterprises classified
as Micro, Small or Medium Enterprise based on the following composite criteria:



                                                                  Investment in Plant &                      Turnover not
                    Type of enterprise                           Machinery not exceeding                      exceeding


                            Micro                                           Rs. 1 crore                       Rs. 5 crores


                            Small                                          Rs. 10 crores                      Rs. 50 crores


                          Medium                                          Rs. 50 crores                      Rs. 250 crores



As per the MSME Policy 2021, the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises are eligible for the following
services, incentives and schemes:


•    The MSME Department has developed and implemented a Single Window Portal for MSMEs as per the Tamil Nadu Business
     Facilitation Act, 2018, to promote Ease of Doing Business. The existing MSMEs can also avail these for renewal of their
     licences through the Single Window Portal.
•    Innovation Voucher Program, Venture Capital Fund, Schemes for fund raising and leveraging IPR regime are available
     through MSME policy to foster an innovation ecosystem for MSMEs. These schemes cover portions of the budget or total
     expenditure incurred on SME IPO, part of cost of filing the patent registration, 50 % subsidy on the cost of filing application
     for Trade-Mark registration including the cost of first-time maintenance fee / Geographical Indicators registration /
     application.
•    The enterprises in thrust sectors set up anywhere in the State are eligible for special capital subsidy up to Rs.150 lakhs in
     three instalments and additionally micro enterprises anywhere in the State are eligible for payroll subsidy.
•    Low Tension Power Tariff Subsidy is available to new micro enterprises / enterprises going in for expansion & diversification
     using Low Tension Power Supply (Tariff III B) only, equivalent to 20% of power consumption charges for 36 months from the
     date of commencement of production or date of receiving the power connection, whichever is later.
•    Additional Capital Subsidy to promote cleaner and environmentally friendly technologies at 25% of plant and machinery
     value up to Rs 10 lakhs is available for all new and existing micro enterprises located anywhere in the State, and small and
     medium manufacturing enterprise in select locations.
•    In addition to the above schemes, interest subsidy schemes for technology upgradation, terms loan availed from TIIC, credit
     linked subsidy, stamp duty exemption, marketing support energy audit charges and implementation charges
     reimbursement, quality certification support, technology development fund are also available for MSMEs.
•    Other incentives under MSME Policy 2021, as applicable




18
6. Implementation
The special packages such as ‘Special Package for FLP Manufacturing’ and ‘Incentives for FLP Design
Centres’ shall be sanctioned to eligible industries by the Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce
Department based on the recommendation of Guidance to the Government / Inter-Departmental
Committee, and SIPCOT shall serve as the nodal agency for incentive disbursal. The existing institutional
mechanism for disbursal of investment related incentives to industries and other implementation
guidelines (as per TNIP 2021 or the prevailing industrial policy) shall be applicable to the Footwear and
Leather Products industries eligible under this Policy.


The incentives for MSME sector shall be sanctioned by the Commissioner of Industries and Commerce.
The single window facilitation for sub-large, large & mega industries shall be done by Guidance through
its single window portal. The single window facilitation for MSME sector shall be done by the
Commissioner of Industries and Commerce & District Industries Centre.




                                                                                                         18
                                                                                                        19
Annexure I
1.   Design Development Centres

2.   Training Academy

3.   Stock fitting facility

4. Upper stitching units

5.   Fly knit factory

6. Mould factory

7. Ornament factory

8. Lace factory

9. Sole factory

10. Footbed factory

11. Foam lamination factory

12. Heat transfer and welding facility

13. Shoe box making facility

14. Outer carton facility

15. Bonded Warehouse with showroom

16. Common utilities, Power supply station, Dormitory, Creche, Medical Centre, Boiler, compressed air,

     STP, Incineration and waste disposal facility for all



Annexure II
The eligibility conditions to avail incentives under the Industry Categories – ‘Component Cluster’ are as
follows:
     a. The aggregate investment and employment of a group of related projects/companies (group
           investors) supplying to a footwear manufacturing unit shall be jointly considered for the purpose
           of eligibility if the aggregate investment and employment meets the minimum eligibility criteria
           for investment and employment of Rs. 300 crore and 3000 jobs respectively.
     b. The group investors in the component cluster must individually receive 50% of their annual
           turnover due to sales to a Footwear/Leather Products manufacturing unit.
     c.    The group investors in the component cluster shall furnish an undertaking from the Footwear/
           Leather Product manufacturing units that the group investors are suppliers to Footwear
           Manufacturing unit (within or outside the cluster) and have a valid contract for 5 years or more.


The eligibility conditions for the ‘Allied Footwear Industries’ is as follows:
     a. The manufacturing unit must individually receive 50% of its annual turnover due to sales to a
           Footwear/Leather Products manufacturing unit.
     b. The manufacturing unit shall furnish an undertaking from the Footwear/Leather Product
           manufacturing unit, that the unit is a supplier to the Footwear/ Leather Product manufacturing
           unit and has a valid contract for 5 years or more.
