The Industrial Policy 2007




    Industries Department
   Government of Tamil Nadu
                                      CONTENTS

1.   Background
2.   Vision 2011, Mission & Objectives
3.   Implementation Strategies
     3.1 Consultative Mechanism
     3.2 Infrastructure development
          Public Private Partnerships (PPP)
          Water
          Railways
          Ports
          Airports
          Roads
          Quality of life
     3.3 Industrial Parks
          Industrial Parks & Special Economic Zones
          Special Economic Zones
          Industrial Park Policy
          Industrial Corridor of Excellence
          NanoTechnology Industrial Park
     3.4. Human Resources & Skill development
          Upgradation of Educational Institutions
          Industry Institute Collaboration
          Grassroots level Skill Development Initiative
          Cluster based Skill Development Intiative
          Centres of Excellence & Innovation
          Funding of HR Skills
          Inclusive development
     3.5. Energy efficiency & Technology upgradation
     3.6 Catalysing Innovation
          Promoting innovation
          Promotion of R & D
          Incentivising R&D
     3.7 Investment Promotion & Facilitation
          Investment Promotion Infrastructure
          Incentives for manufacturing sector
          Incentives for the Infrastructure sector
          Corporate Social Responsibility
     3.8 Business Environment
          Deregulation and Simplification
          Business Facilitation
     3.9 Promoting Cluster Development
          Cluster Infrastructure Development

     3.10 Sector level strategies : Manufacturing                ..
          Automotive industry
          Engineering industry
          Semiconductor, Electronic hardware & Nanotechnology industry
          Leather industry
          Textiles sector
          Chemicals, Petrochemicals and Fertiliser industry
          Cement industry
          Drugs and Pharmaceuticals industry
          Life Sciences industry
          Agro and agro-processing industry
          Sugar industry
          Biofuel industry
     3.11 Service Sector Strategies
          Construction industry
          Other services
     3.12 Export Promotion
          Export goals
          Export Facilitation
     3.13 Labour reforms
     3.14 Environment protection
          Environmental clearances
          Cluster-based facilities
          Hazardous waste management
          Carbon credit System
4.   Conclusion
     Annexe-A : Components of an Approved Industrial Park
     Annexe-B : List of industries ineligible for incentives
     Annexe-C : Industrial Infrastructure Projects eligible for incentives
     1.       Background


Tamil Nadu is one of the well-developed States in terms of industrial development. In the
post liberalization era, the State has emerged as one of the front-runners in attracting large
number of domestic and foreign investors. In 2006-2007, manufacturing sector contributed
20.23% to Tamil Nadu's GSDP, while services sector contributed 59.1% of Tamil Nadu's
GSDP (measured at constant prices).
The State Government is now focused on stimulating further industrial development,
attracting investment, facilitating new manufacturing capacity and enabling global
manufacturing competence and competitiveness of local industry.


2.        Vision 2011, Mission & Objectives
          Vision 2011
          •     To create an additional 2 million jobs by 2011
          •     To raise contribution to GSDP from manufacturing sector from 21%
                to 27% by 2011
          •     To double Tamil Nadu's annual exports to Rs 140,000 crores
          •     To raise Tamil Nadu to a position of pre-eminence in innovation and high
                technology
          •     To raise the competitiveness and efficiency of Small and Medium
                Enterprises and agro based industries for increasing value addition and giving
                better income to the farmers


Mission


Our mission is to accelerate human development in Tamil Nadu by maximizing investment,
output, growth, employment and manufacturing competitiveness through infrastructure and
human resources development in industries and services sectors.


Objectives:


The following are the key objectives of the Industrial Policy:
          •     To position Tamil Nadu as the most attractive investment destination.
          •     To facilitate industry capturing a larger share of world trade in
                goods/services.
        •     To reform regulatory processes and remove procedural hurdles in
              business.
        •     To enable integration of existing industrial clusters with global supply
              chains.
        •     To build efficient and dependable industrial infrastructure.
        •     To develop human resources and intellectual capital to world standards.
        •     To encourage symbiosis with SMEs in major industry clusters.


3.      Implementation strategies


3.1.Consultative Mechanism


A Special Task Force on Industrial Development has been constituted with Hon'ble Chief
Minister as the Chairman. This will provide a forum to get inputs from industry for policy
making through constant Government-Industry interaction.


3.2.Infrastructure development
Government will take steps to upgrade infrastructure facilities in all industrial clusters,
including water supply, power, communication facilities, roads, railways, etc. in order to
improve the competitiveness of industry.


Public Private Partnerships (PPP)


Public-Private Partnership route to bring in greater flow of investments into industrial
infrastructure is being used by TIDCO to bring in private investment in road, industrial park
and SEZ development. SIPCOT will also use this model for water supply projects and
development of other infrastructure.


Water


Water is a critical input for industries in Tamil Nadu. Our effort would be to reduce
dependence of industries and industrial parks on surface and ground water sources.
Projects for recycling of municipal sewage into water for industrial use would be set up to
meet demand for industrial water.
Railways


Provision of railhead facilities for Sriperumbudur, Cheyyar and Cuddalore industrial areas
would be given top priority.


Ministry of Railways has been requested to take up early implementation of a dedicated
freight corridor connecting Chennai with New Delhi as well as provision of electrification
and doubling of track between Chennai and Kanyakumari.


Ports


Early operationalisation of the first container terminal in Ennore port and multilevel car
parking facilities at Chennai port would be pursued with Government of India.
As work on the Sethusamudram channel is in progress, State Government would take up with
Government of India upgradation of Thoothukudi port into a modern deep water hub port.
Minor ports and jetties along the coastline will be encouraged.
State Government will provide all facilitation and support for early implementation of
modernisation and expansion plans of Chennai airport.
Upgradation of Madurai, Tiruchirapalli, Thoothukudi and Coimbatore airports to handle
wide-bodied aircraft has been taken up with Government of India. These will be followed up.


Roads


State Government will facilitate completion of four laning of Chennai- Kanyakumari
highway by 2011.
Upgradation of Roads and bridges leading to and within industrial clusters would be given
top priority.


Quality of life


Local bodies in key industrial areas will be motivated to adopt better town planning and civic
governance practices in terms of cleanliness, waste management, quality of civic amenities
like roads, water supply, etc. through capacity building.
3.3.Industrial Parks


Industrial Parks & Special Economic Zones
To make available adequate supply of developed land for manufacturing and quality space
for high technology industries and startups, a land bank of 10,000 acres for industrial parks
will be developed across the State over the next five years with quality infrastructure
facilities, including social infrastructure like skill development centres, housing, business
centres, restaurants, financial services, schools and hospitals. At least 10% of area in
industrial parks developed by SIPCOT and TIDCO would be set apart for such social
infrastructure. This land bank will be mostly developed in dry and barren lands. Prime
agricultural lands will be avoided.
New industrial parks/SEZs or expansions of industrial parks promoted by SIPCOT or TIDCO
will reserve 20% of allottable area for SMEs, including SME vendors to major industries in
the same park.


Special Economic Zones


Tamil Nadu SEZ Act 2005 and Tamil Nadu SEZ Policy of 2003 will be reviewed and
updated.
As a measure of balanced regional development, proposals for SEZs in industrially backward
Blocks would be encouraged and given top priority.


Industrial Park Policy
Equal treatment would be given to parks promoted by SIPCOT, TIDCO or private
developers. These incentives and facilities would be available to all Special Economic Zones
also.
Industrial parks meeting criteria listed and providing the basic facilities in Annexe-A would
be eligible to enjoy incentives under this policy. Applications for approval would be
examined and final response (approval/rejection) given in 30 days.
Private industrial parks shall purchase land directly. Lands acquired by such parks/SEZs shall
be as far as possible barren, non-irrigated and dry land. Proposals with more than 10% wet
lands will not be approved.
All approved industrial parks shall be eligible for following incentives:


Back-ended Industrial Park Infrastructure Grant of Rs 2 crores or 25% of the investment in
eligible fixed assets, whichever is less, would be granted only for approved industrial parks
50 km away from Chennai city limits. Such industrial parks must attract at least 20 new units
with investments primarily in manufacturing with a total direct employment of at least 2000.
This grant may be used to fund common internal infrastructure like roads, water supply,
Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) or Common Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage
and Disposal Facility (HWTSDF). Environment Protection infrastructure have to be
approved by TN Pollution Control Board.
Manufacturing units set up in approved industrial parks would be eligible for all subsidies
and incentives applicable to manufacturing units and permissible under this industrial policy.
Necessary amendments and notifications would be considered to operationalise the
Industrial Township Area Development Authority Act of 1997, including permission to
retain the roads and open spaces within the park and maintain them.
The Floor Space Index eligible for such parks will be on par with FSI permissible in Chennai
Metropolitan area (CMDA area).
GUIDANCE bureau will serve as the single window clearance agency (as a fee based
service) for all industrial parks and SEZs to guarantee speedy clearances in CMDA and non-
CMDA areas.


Industrial Corridor of Excellence


In the first phase, Chennai-Manali-Ennore corridor and the Chengalpattu-Sriperumbudur-
Ranipet corridor will be developed into Industrial Corridors of Excellence, with Special
Economic Zones, Industrial & IT Parks, R&D institutions, Universities, social infrastructure
like housing, health-care and schooling facilities. Similarly, the Madurai-Thoothukkudi and
Coimbatore - Salem Corridors will also be developed. A suitable administrative arrangement
shall be made for each of these corridors to carry out sustainable land use planning and
zoning as well as to plan and develop infrastructure facilities, efficient transportation
systems, connectivity infrastructure, etc.


Nanotechnology Industrial Park


SIPCOT will develop a Nanotechnology Park on similar lines to science parks in developed
countries. This park would focus on hi-tech manufacturing in semiconductor foundries, chip
assembly & testing, opto-electronics, solar cell technologies and nano-technology. It will be
located in about 2000 acres and will have SEZ and DTA zones. SMEs would be also
provided space, including business incubation services. Universities, National and State
Research Institutions would be encouraged to set up training, consultancy and R&D centres
within this Park.


3.4.Human Resources and Skill Development


To maintain HR competence of Tamil Nadu, a Human Resources and Skills Initiative will be
launched for making available sufficient manpower of right quality and competencies. A
State-Level HR Skill Development Task Force will be set up to implement this initiative.


Upgradation of Educational Institutions


An Industrial Training Quality Improvement Project would be initiated to invest substantially
in the ITI/ITC infrastructure development and capabilities.
Since Arts and Science Colleges and High schools are important foundries for future
employees in various industries, courses will be upgraded and re-engineered in the changing
context in consultation with Industry.
Courses to promote soft skills such as inter-personal skills, team building and working skills,
right attitude to work and analytical abilities would be designed for all levels of education,
including high schools.


Industry-Institute Collaboration


Each ITI, Polytechnic and engineering college would identify local industries or industry
associations, especially in industrial clusters, as partners. A revised framework for industry-
institute collaboration and public-private partnership for ITIs, Polytechnics and Engineering
colleges would be announced.
State Government will encourage setting up of Technology Parks inside as well as around
institutions of higher learning and universities.


Grassroots level Skill Development Initiative


A Grass-roots Level Skill Development Initiative would be formulated, aimed at imparting
basic training to unskilled people to assist them in transitioning to skilled jobs. A target of
1,00,000 unskilled persons to be trained is set for the period 2007-2010 with accredited
industry-specific course content relevant to local industry.


Cluster Based Skill Development Initiative


Cluster level skill development will focus on specific existing clusters in the auto, leather,
textiles, electronic hardware sectors. A Cluster HR Skills Development Committee will be
established in each major cluster with membership of engineering colleges, polytechnics,
ITIs, arts and science colleges and participating industries to set targets for training, revision
of course content and course intake of these institutions.


Centers of Excellence and Innovation


State Government would support development of “Centres of Excellence & Innovation” to
develop a pool of world-class scientists and technologists in collaboration with academic
institutions of excellence, industry and Government of India, in areas of chip and electronic
hardware design, leather product design and automotive design.


Funding of HR Skills


Government will financially support the HR Skills Initiative through budgetary support on a
case to case basis based on proposals by concerned departments. Contributions from the
industry, funds from schemes under various programs of State and Central Governments
would also be dovetailed.


Inclusive development


Industries employing differently-abled persons would be incentivised suitably, by supporting
skill development programs to enable their productive employment.


3.5.Energy Efficiency &Technology Upgradation


Raising energy efficiency and upgrading technology are ways of cranking up firm-level
competitiveness. There is also a need to promote cleaner technologies. A Tamil Nadu
Technology and Efficiency Upgradation Initiative will be launched primarily through a fund
to be administered by TIIC. This fund would be available as a soft loan for SMEs. Interest
accumulations would add to the corpus. TIIC would work out necessary guidelines for this
fund.


3.6.Catalysing Innovation
Promoting innovation


50% of the cost of filing a patent or Rs 2 lakhs, whichever is less, would be provided to
technology innovators or stand alone R&D units or individuals for innovations capable of
industrial application. The support will be available for filing the patent application in India
or abroad, cost of registration and first time maintenance fee of the granted application.
A strong IP culture would be promoted in all universities and important technical institutions
in collaboration with industry.


Promotion of R&D


Investments in Research and Development by manufacturing companies would be
encouraged.
Investment in R&D facilities would be given special treatment as part of structured package
of assistance given to manufacturing companies.


Incentivising R&D


Capital goods to be used in setting up hi-technology R&D centers would be exempted from
entry tax and VAT would be zero rated. Such capital goods shall not be used for commercial
production and be used exclusively for R&D.
Technology parks focused on R&D would be treated on par with Information Technology
Parks for purpose of applicable incentives, including FSI norms, etc.


3.7.Investment Promotion and Facilitation


Investment Promotion Infrastructure


International Exhibition and Convention centers would be set up in joint venture with local
industry associations and private investors based on potential. A back-ended subsidy of 50%
of the cost of land or Rs 1 crore, whichever is less, will be provided to reputed industry
associations for setting up exhibition-cum-convention centres.
Incentives for manufacturing sector


Manufacturing units other than those belonging to categories listed in Annexe-B will be
eligible for incentives under this Policy.
New manufacturing facilities set up in any district other than Chennai, Thiruvallur and
Kanchipuram with an investment in eligible fixed assets of over Rs 250 crores in a period of
3 years would be eligible for a structured package of incentives to be decided on a case-to-
case basis, with due weight to investment, employment and potential for attracting further
investment through vendors and ancillaries. In case of Chennai, Thiruvallur and
Kanchipuram districts, this minimum investment will be Rs. 350 crores.
New manufacturing facilities set up by an existing company in a new site or in an adjacent
vacant site within existing facility for manufacturing a product already being manufactured in
the existing unit or an entirely new product, would be treated as a new unit for the purpose of
incentives under the policy, subject to the production volume/value in the older unit being
preserved.
Expansion projects within the existing manufacturing facility of an industry with an
investment in eligible fixed assets of over Rs 250 crores in a period of 3 years would be
eligible for a structured package of incentives to be decided on a case-to-case basis, subject to
preservation of existing production volume/value, in case of districts other than
Kanchipuram, Thiruvallur and Chennai. In case of Chennai, Thiruvallur and Kanchipuram
districts, this minimum investment will be Rs 350 crores.
As regards electronic hardware units, the eligibility for structured package of assistance for
investments in new and expansion projects will be minimum investment of Rs.250 crores in
eligible fixed assets within a period of 3 years in respect of Chennai, Tiruvallur and
Kancheepuram districts.      The eligibility in respect of other districts will be minimum
investment of Rs.150 crores in eligible fixed assets within a period of 3 years.
Existing industrial units in existence in Tamil Nadu for over 10 years will be given suitable
extra benefits for expansion projects over and above normal structured package of incentives,
subject to investing minimum levels of investment mentioned above.
New or expansion manufacturing facilities with investments in eligible fixed assets over Rs.
1500 crores will be treated as super-mega projects and eligible for incentives over and above
the normal structured package of incentives.
A back-ended State Capital Subsidy and Electricity tax exemption on power purchased
from TNEB or generated and consumed from captive sources would be sanctioned for all
manufacturing units, based on employment and investment in eligible fixed assets made
within 3 years, irrespective of location, as below:
         •      New Units investing between Rs 5 crores and Rs 50 crores and employing
         more than 100 direct workers would be eligible for a capital subsidy of
         Rs 30 lakhs and electricity tax exemption for 2 years from the date
         of commercial production;
         •      New Units investing between Rs 50 crores and Rs 100 crores,
         and employing more than 200 direct workers would be eligible for a capital subsidy
of Rs. 60 lakhs and electricity tax exemption for 3 years from the date of commercial
production;
         •      New Units investing between Rs 100 crores and Rs 200 crores and employing
300 direct workers would be eligible for capital subsidy of Rs 100 lakhs and electricity tax
exemption for 4 years from the date of commercial production;
         •      New as well as Expansion Units investing Rs 200 crores and above and
employing more than 400 direct workers would be eligible for a capital subsidy of Rs 1.50
crore and electricity tax exemption for 5 years from the date of commercial production.
Manufacturing units located within a SIPCOT industrial park or SIPCOT SEZ will be
provided an additional 50% capital subsidy over and above the eligible limit.
There will be no stamp duty levied in respect of transfer of lands acquired by Government or
alienated by Government to State Agencies or their subsidiaries for promotion of industrial
parks.
Stamp duty exemption on lease or purchase of land meant for industrial use to the extent of
50% would be available for all manufacturing industries setting up new or expansion units
with an investment in eligible fixed assets of more than Rs 5 crores in private industrial parks
conforming to specifications mentioned in Annexe-A and approved by Government.
Manufacturing units setup in SIPCOT industrial parks would be eligible for 50% exemption
from stamp duty on lease or sale of land meant for industrial use as well as on lease of new
ready built factory buildings irrespective of location.
For computation of stamp duty, property in such industrial parks would be valued at actual
land or building value paid by the manufacturing unit to such industrial park.
Dedicated Effluent Treatment Plants(ETP) and/or Hazardous Treatment Storage and Disposal
Facility(HWTSDF) set up by individual manufacturing units would be eligible for an
Environment Protection Infrastructure subsidy of Rs 30 lakhs or 25% of capital cost of
setting up such ETP/HWTSDF, which ever is less.
Incentives for the Infrastructure Sector


Recognising the need for industrial infrastructure, development of certain categories of
industrial infrastructure listed in Annexe-C would be incentivised.
Developers investing in such industrial infrastructure projects would apply to the State
Government for being notified as an approved industrial infrastructure project for purposes
of receiving incentives herein.
An Industrial Infrastructure Subsidy of Rs 2 crores would be given for approved
infrastructure projects involving investment of Rs 300 crores in 3 years.
Developers of approved industrial infrastructure projects would be eligible for 100%
exemption from entry tax, tax on works contract and input taxes from the date of notifying it
as an approved infrastructure project till the project is commissioned.
Single window clearance would be available for all industrial infrastructure projects.
GUIDANCE Bureau, on application, will provide single window clearance as a fee based
service.


Corporate Social Responsibility


Government recognises that companies assisted through a structured package of assistance
have a responsibility to the society and community around their manufacturing facilities.
Investing companies will be encouraged to participate in community and social development
activities. Suitable provisions will be incorporated in the Memoranda of Understanding
signed with such companies.
Additional incentives will be given to investing companies which give preference to local
employment and follow the Government's policy on reservation.


3.8.Business environment
Deregulation and Simplification


Electronic filing of annual returns with various Government departments and agencies will
be introduced for industries through a common portal, along with a scheme of self-
certification wherever feasible and consolidated annual returns. The objective is to reduce
paperwork and multiple inspections of factories by Government officers.
A scheme of electronic payment and filing of VAT returns would also be introduced by
Government as a long term measure for reducing paperwork for industry.
Land reforms permission under section 37 A of the TN Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on
Land) Act, 1961, for holding land in excess of 15 standard acres and change in land-use
classification for industrial use would be given within 90 days for all eligible industries and
industrial parks, failing which such applications would be deemed to have been approved.
Government will take steps to amend relevant laws and regulations enabling automatic
conversion of dry lands from agriculture to industrial use.


Business Facilitation


Enactment of a Business Facilitation Act would be considered for giving Single Window
Committees, at State and District level, formal authority and clear time lines for each
approval.
A Business Facilitation e-Governance System will be put in place enabling investors to apply
for Single Window Clearance on-line and to monitor clearances.


3.9.Promoting Cluster development
Cluster Infrastructure Development


Quality of infrastructure in industrial clusters in Tamil Nadu would be upgraded through a
Cluster development action plan in collaboration with the industry. Departments of
Municipal Administration, Rural Development, Local bodies, Highways, TNEB, Town &
Country Planning, Industries & Commerce would be involved in this exercise.
Funds under various schemes of Government of India such as IIUS, TCIDS, etc., would be
fully dovetailed to meet these special needs.


3.10.Sector-level strategies: Manufacturing
Automotive industry
In order to attract large investments in the automobile manufacturing sector, the State
Government has already announced an ultra-mega integrated automobile projects policy.
This policy is applicable to


                                                12
automobile projects investing Rs 4000 crores or more in eligible fixed assets.

A Special Economic Zone for auto-components will be set up near Chennai in about 300
acres. Facilities for training in high technology in auto-components would also be set up in
this SEZ.

Polytechnics and ITIs around Chennai, Hosur and Coimbatore would be oriented for
automotive sector.


Engineering Industry



To further strengthen exports, an Engineering Goods Special Economic Zone in about 250
acres for pumps, motors and foundry would be promoted near Coimbatore as a PPP project
with the local industry by SIPCOT.


Semiconductor, Electronic Hardware & Nanotechnology industry
A Centre of excellence in chip and electronic hardware design will be promoted in Anna
University in collaboration with the electronic industry and Government.

A Nano-Technology Research Centre is being set up in Bharathiar University and will be
supported by State Government for promoting Research and Development.

A group of Polytechnics and Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) around Chennai would be
converted into special skill development centres for electronic hardware manufacturing in
collaboration with industry.


Leather Industry



A footwear SEZ, with design centre and training facilities, is being set up in Sriperumbudur
by SIPCOT in 150 acres of land. In addition, a Leather Products SEZ would be set up in the
Chennai-Ranipet corridor by SIPCOT.

A high technology environment-friendly Leather Processing Complex of international
standards would be setup at a suitable location.
Textiles sector



Though Tamil Nadu is pre-eminent in spinning and knitwear, there is need to promote
integrated textile units in processing, weaving and garmenting. Hence, State Government will
announce a Policy for Integrated Textile Units shortly.

Chemicals, Petrochemicals and Fertiliser industry


Steps would be taken to make Natural Gas available from Krishna-Godavari basin and also
from the Cochin LNG terminal through TIDCO and other private gas suppliers.
Restrictions in use of methanol as a feedstock in chemical industries has been hampering its
regular and wider use. Necessary deregulation to enable chemical industries to freely use
methanol would be considered.
Petrochemical Projects Investment Region (PCPIR) at Ennore or Cuddalore will be set up
using PCPIR policy recently announced by Government of India.


Cement Industry


Government would take all steps to enable effective use of fly ash by the cement industry
from all sources, including TNEB.
Clinker grinding units would be encouraged in the State.
Exploration of new limestone resources would be given special thrust.


Drugs and Pharmaceuticals industry


A specialized drugs and pharmaceuticals duster would be developed as part of the Nanguneri
SEZ. This would offer state-of-the-art environment protection facilities.
A Pharma SEZ would be set up on the east coast with hi-tech environmental control systems
to enable zero pollution.


Life Sciences Industry


Taking into account the fast growing importance of specific sub-sectors such as bio-pharma,
bio-services, bio-manufacturing and bio-agriculture in the biotechnology sector, an updated
Life Sciences Policy will be announced.
A state-level Life Sciences Innovation Fund will be created by TIDCO. Necessary guidelines
in this regard will be issued separately. Funds from other sources such as Technology
Development Board of Ministry of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology,
Ministry of Agriculture, etc., of Government of India, funding from Multilateral institutions
and other sources would also be leveraged.
A ten year programme to harness the potential of education institutions in the State of Tamil
Nadu to generate high quality life sciences students will be developed duly involving
academia, industry and available international expertise.


Agro and agro-processing industry



Support for agro industry would focus on increasing returns to farmers, while maximising
value addition of agro products. The goal is to raise share of processed foods in the food
market from 1% to 10% and value addition levels from 7% to 30%. Support for this sector
will comprise of promotion of agro processing, agro infrastructure development such as cold
chains in the PPP mode covering agriculture, meat, fisheries, poultry, etc., while also enabling
improvement of quality of processed foods to world standards. This initiative will promote
investments in production of quality planting material or breeds, processing of cereals, pulses,
fruits, vegetables, milk, meat and fish, etc., as well as quality packaging technology. The
following will be the key strategies involved in promoting agro-processing industry:

•   Directorate of Agricultural Marketing and Agri-Business will be the nodal agency for
    agro-processing industries in Tamil Nadu and serve as a single window clearance agency
    for agro-processing industry in the State, including statutory clearances and provision of
    necessary incentives. An Export Promotion CeZZ will be created within the Directorate to
    guide and provide assistance to exporters.

•   Incentives will be provided for creation of agro-processing infrastructure such as terminal
    markets, specialised commodity markets, transport, cold chain, warehousing, abattoirs,
    R&D units and food parks.

•   Agro processing clusters will be promoted in industrial parks and special economic zones
    keeping in view value-addition of meat and seafood (Ramanathapuram), Poultry products
    (Namakkal), Turmeric (Erode), Sago (Salem), Bananas (Trichy), Mangoes (Krishnagiri),
    Cashew (Panruti), Palm Products, Medicinal plants and seafood (Thoothukudi), Milk
    products, Grapes (Theni), etc. A comprehensive infrastructure development plan will be
    drawn up and implemented over 5 years to provide road and air connectivity to marketing
    centres, agro-food parks andAgri Export Zones.

•   Special Agro Economic Zones will be promoted for value added activities like food
    processing, agro based industries, dairy products, etc., to generate large scale employment
    for semi-skilled and unskilled persons.
•   As a follow up of notification of the Wine (Manufacture) Rules in 2006, a Wine
    manufacturing policy will be announced to enable development of grape cultivation and
    winery industry in the State.
•   Quality power will be provided to agro processors.
•   Cultivation of high value crops through scientific and high technology cultivation will be
    be given special thrust. For such cultivation, exemption from Land Reforms Act will be
    granted on case to case basis for setting up mega orchards of 50 Hectare and above.
•   Contract farming by agro processors will be encouraged to give better return to the
    farmers.
•   Flower processing and floriculture units will be encouraged.
•   Agri Biotechnology and Agri Nanotechnology will be promoted for enhancing
    productivity, quality and value addition.
•   Manufacture of micro-irrigation systems, green house components, shadenets, farm
    machinery and other agro equipment will be incentivised and FDI in these sectors will be
    encouraged.
•   Production of quality and predigree planting materials, seeds and breeding materials will
    be recognised as a agro-processing industry and provided incentives under this policy.
•   Better post harvest management, quality assurance and certification systems will be
    promoted to enable better shelf life and value of agro products.
•   Human resource development in the agri-business sector will be given priority to by
    training of extension staff, farmers and processors.
•   Appropriate weather forecasting mechanism including automatic weather stations where
    necessary will be set up to reduce unpredictability in agricultural production. Further,
    Government will test pilot a variety of insurance schemes to cover the risk of primary
    producers.


Incentives


All incentives available for manufacturing industries under the Industrial Policy would be
applicable to agro-industries and manufacturing of agri-machinery and micro-irrigation
equipment. Efforts will also be taken to fully utilize the benefits available under
    the schemes of Government of India as well as enable agro units to access such Gol
    funding support. All concessions under the State Policy would be available in
    addition to the concessions offered by Government of India in the agro-processing
    sector, subject to both Govt, of India and Govt, of Tamil Nadu subsidies not
    exceeding 50% of project cost.

•   Standalone SME cold storages for agro processing will be provided power tariff
    subsidy of 30%, 20% and 10% in the first, second and third year of commercial
    operation.

•   100% exemption from payment of Electricity Tax would be provided for all new
    agro-processing units for a period of 5 years from the date of commercial production.

•   SMEs involved in Agro and Food Processing will be provided support for getting
    HACCP and other international safety related certification for export purposes of at
    50% of the cost incurred for obtaining quality certification mark from a certifying
    agency recognised by State Government/ Central Government, subject to ceiling of
    Rs. 5.00 lacs.

•   Vehicles transporting perishables will be labelled "green transport" and will be given
    speedy clearances at check posts.

•   Primary producers who commit to install micro-irrigation systems will be given
    priority in provision of free electricity connections. Overriding priority for free
    electricity connection will be given to small and marginal farmers if they join
    together to form a cluster of 20 hectares and above and undertake to jointly set up,
    own and manage the common irrigation systems using micro-irrigation technology.

•   Government will give 50% subsidy on planting material for jatropha and other bio-
    fuel crops and extend the subsidy available to agro-processing industry to bio-fuel
    and bio-diesel extraction plants. Further, jatropha seed will be exempted from
    purchase tax and jatropha oil will be exempted from VAT for a period of 10 years
    from the date of commercial production.




                                                                                       20
Sugar Industry



State Government has issued guidelines for establishment of Integrated Sugar Complexes
consisting of sugar mills, co-generation plants and distilleries in all future projects.
Existing sugar mills will be encouraged to put up such facilities in their complexes.
Establishment of ethanol units in sugar mills would be encouraged.



Biofuel industry



Government of India have launched Ethanol blended petrol (EBP) scheme. Oil
Companies would be encouraged to effectively implement this scheme, leading to better
returns for farmers and profitabliry of sugar mills. State Government will also encourage
use of ethanol as fuel and increase of blending ratio of ethanol to petrol.

Suitable support and encouragement would be extended to investors willing to set up
ethanol units through sugarcane and grain-based routes. This would enable better
returns for dry land farmers who cultivate sago, millets, etc.



3.11 .Service Sector Strategies

Service Sector Opportunities
The largest employment, after the agriculture sector, is generated by services sector, like
real estate and construction services, financial services, IT enabled services, Business
Process Outsourcing (BPO), Engineering Process Outsourcing (EPO), Aircraft
Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) services, Digital and Media services, etc.
Though services sector is directly related to growth in manufacturing sector, it is still
necessary to identify bottlenecks in each sub-sector and accelerate the pace of
investments and employment generation.




                                                                                           21
Construction Industry



A fee-based single window clearance mechanism would be put in place, like
GUIDANCE bureau, for all major construction projects covering clearances required
from several Government departments. An e-governance package would be evolved for
this single window clearance mechanism for construction industry.

A pilot Construction Cluster Park will be established with space for large industries as
well as SMEs in the construction related industries and services.


Mass training of unskilled and semi-skilled workers for construction industry will be
taken up in collaboration with Construction Industry Development Council (CIDC)
through ITIs and Polytechnics.


Other Services


State Government will promote aircraft Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO)
services in Tamil Nadu as part of Chennai airport expansion and modernisation.
The printing cluster at Sivakasi will be supported with necessary infrastructure, including
a center of excellence in R & D and training in association with industry.


3.12.Export Promotion
Export goals


In Tamil Nadu, exports in 2005-2006 was Rs 66,856 cr (USD 14.5 billion). This
Industrial Policy aims at doubling exports to reach US $ 30 billion in 2011 leading to
additional employment for 10 lakhs persons by 2011.




                                                                                        22
Export Facilitation


State Level Export Promotion Committee (SLEPC) functioning under Chairmanship of
Chief Secretary with membership of FIEO, Export councils, leading export associations
and officials provides facilitation and support for exports.
Industries Commissioner & Director of Industries and Commerce will be designated as
"State Exports Commissioned' to coordinate with various departments of State and
Central Government in connection with exports, facilitate exports and work towards
procedural simplification of export documentation formalities.
The existing Export Guidance Cell in each District Industries Centre will be upgraded
into an "District Export Promotion Cell in collaboration with FIEO. This arrangement
would facilitate accelerated disposal of various clearances required by exporters.
A Comprehensive Trade Information Portal with network connectivity to all District
Industries Centres would be set up by Directorate of Industries & Commerce in
collaboration with FIEO.
"Industrial Cluster Export Promotion Committee" would be established for each major
export cluster in the State under Chairmanship of a State Level Officer to address various
administrative, procedural or infrastructure issues faced by exporters, settle local
problems and forward larger policy and macro issues to SLEPC for decisions.
100% EOU's will be declared as public utility under Industrial Disputes Act.
Government of Tamil Nadu will request Government of India to increase funding to
exporting States under ASIDE keeping in mind increase in number of Special Economic
Zones and EOUs in the State and pressure on infrastructure.


3.13.Labour reforms



Overlapping of shifts will be permitted automatically without need for any approval if it
is less than 30 minutes. Necessary exemption would be given under section 58(2) of the
Factories Act, subject to conditions.




                                                                                       23
3.14.Environment Protection
Environmental clearances



An E-govemance package would be implemented by TNPCB for speedy processing of
environment clearances.
TNPCB will grant clearance for "reef'category industries on compliance of relevant
norms within 60 days. Consent for "orange" and "green" categories will be given in 15
days from date of application. An online application and clearance mechanism will be
developed for green and orange categories.


Cluster based facilities



Dyeing, leather tanning and industries that pollute would be encouraged to locate only
within approved clusters with common environment management facilities.


Hazardous waste management



Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facility (HWTSDF) will be set up at
Gummidipoondi, Oragadam, Perundurai, Cuddalore, Karur and Tiruppur.


Carbon credit system



TNPCB and TIIC will encourage industries from Tamil Nadu to benefit from Joint
Implementation, Clean Development Mechanism andEmissions Trading          mechanisms
through active dissemination and facilitation.




                                                                                   24
4. Conclusion


Government of Tamil Nadu will take necessary steps to achieve the mission set forth in
this policy, especially in ensuring that share of the manufacturing sector rises to over
30% of GSDP by 2015, as seen in developed countries.

                                         Annexe-A


Components of an Approved Industrial Park
1.     Criteria for approval
(a)    Minimum area 250 acres in legal possession of applicant
(b) Should be meant primarily for manufacturing activities
(c) Should have provision for atleast 5 major manufacturing units and 20 SMEs
(d)    Should not have more than 10% wet land or double crop land
(e)    Should not include (for contiguity) more than 5% of Government land
(f)    Should be 50 km away from Chennai city limits
2.     Processing area : not less than 65 % of total area
•      Industrial plots for manufacturing
•      Ready built sheds for industrial use
•      R&D centres
•      Testing & Certification centres
•      Pathways and roads
3.     Non-Processing Area : not more than 35% area
•      Business related non-processing area - not more than 20% of total area
•      Office space for business support to processing area
•      Customs bonded warehouses and ICDs
•      Convention centers
•      Business centres- financial services
•      Education and Skill training centres related to processing area
•      Guest houses for use by businesses in processing area




                                                                                     25
       Social Infrastructure -not more than 15% of total area
•      Housing
•      Schools
•      Hospitals
•      General purpose education and training institutions
•      Entertainment & shopping centres
•      Open spaces, roads and pathways


                                          Annexe-B
List of industries ineligible for incentives
1.     Sugar mills
2.     Mineral water and aerated soft drinks
3.     Alcoholic beverages
4.     Ice cream and confectionery
5.     Fertiliser and animal feed manufacture
6.     Mining and beneficiation
7.     Steel re-rolling, steel fabrication, stainless steel utensils
8.     Tobacco processing, cigarette or beedi manufacture
9.     Timber or wood processing
10.    Servicing or repair facilities
11.    Services sector
12.    Any other industries as may be notified by Government


                                          Annexe-C


Industrial Infrastructure projects eligible for Incentives
The following would qualify as industrial infrastructure projects for purposes of
incentives under this Policy:
1.    Desalination plants for Industrial Parks or Special Economic Zones
2.    Dedicated Railway projects for Industrial parks or Special Economic Zones




                                                                                    26
3.   Dedicated ports or container terminals for Industrial Parks or Special Economic
     Zones
4.   High technology stand-alone industrial R&D centers
5.   Dedicated new roads leading to industrial parks or Special Economic Zones
6.   Common Hazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal Facilities for a cluster of
     industries
7.   Common Effluent/Waste Water Recycling Plants for Industrial Parks or SEZs or a
     cluster of industries or marine effluent discharge scheme approved by TNPCB, like
     schemes proposed in the Cauvery, Amaravathi, Palar basins.




                                                                                       27
