INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014




    TAMIL NADU
 INDUSTRIAL POLICY
       2014




                           Industries Department
                         Government of Tamil Nadu

                                                    1
    INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




2
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014




                         CONTENTS
                                              Page No.

1.    PREAMBLE                                     6

2.    THE NEED FOR A NEW INDUSTRIAL POLICY         9

3.    OBJECTIVES                                   9

4.    APPROACH                                    10

5.    STRATEGY                                    10

6.    PRIORITY SECTORS                            18

7.    SKILL DEVELOPMENT                           18

8.    TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                      19

9.    FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTRE                   20

10.   INVESTMENT PROMOTION                        20

11.   EXPORT PROMOTION                            20

12.   LABOUR SECTOR INITIATIVES                   20

13.   MULTI-STOREYED BUILDINGS APPROVAL           21

14.   SINGLE WINDOW MECHANISM                     21

15.   INCENTIVES FOR MANUFACTURING SECTOR         21

16.   STANDARD INCENTIVES                         23

17.   STRUCTURED PACKAGE OF INCENTIVES            25

18.   INTER-DEPARTMENTAL COMMITTEE                27

19.   IMPLEMENTATION OF INCENTIVES                27

20.   MECHANISM FOR DISBURSAL OF INCENTIVES       28


                                                       3
                      INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU



21. CASHLESS MECHANISM                                            28

22.   SPECIAL PACKAGE FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICTS                      28

ANNEXURE - A                                                      33

ANNEXURE - B                                                      34

ANNEXURE - C                                                      35

ANNEXURE - D                                                      36

ANNEXURE - E                                                      40




4
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014


              TAMIL NADU INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

AT A GLANCE

• The Vision 2023 Tamil Nadu document unveiled by the Hon’ble Chief Minister
  of Tamil Nadu on 22.3.2012 charts out a crucial road map for the growth of
  manufacturing with an annual growth rate of 14% and a total investment of
  Rs.15 lakh crore by 2023 covering all the major sectors of the State economy.
  A major thrust for Infrastructure Development is proposed.
• Tamil Nadu is already strong in the major industrial sectors of automobiles,
  auto components, engineering goods, leather, textiles, Information Technology
  and Bio Technology and the New Policy aims to maintain and improve the
  competitive edge of the State to make Tamil Nadu the Manufacturing Hub
  of the country and one of the Top Three destinations for investment in Asia.
• The main strategies for achieving the goals of the policy are the focus on
  infrastructure, prioritising core sectors of future development with emphasis
  on advanced technology, skill development, a modified Structured Package of
  Assistance and balanced regional development with a renewed thrust on the
  Southern Districts of the State.




                                                                              5
                                INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


               TAMIL NADU INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

1. PREAMBLE

      1.1 The State of Tamil Nadu has always been in the forefront of economic
growth in the country. The State has made impressive strides over the years to carve
out a niche for itself in the fields of engineering, automobiles, textiles, leather,
Information Technology, electronic hardware and hi-technology industries and the
Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) stood at Rs.4,51,313 crore at constant prices
in 2012-131. The industrial GSDP of Tamil Nadu grew at an impressive rate of
9.60% from the year 2005-06 to 2012-13 at constant prices.*
       1.2 The Vision 2023 Tamil Nadu document envisages Tamil Nadu to
be the most prosperous and progressive State with no poverty by the year 2023.
Towards achieving this major goal, manufacturing sector is assigned the key role of
energizing the economy and creating a virtuous circle of enhanced competitiveness,
efficiency and vibrancy in all sectors and galvanize the citizen and other stake holders
towards reaching the targets in unison. Under this strategy, one of the 10 thrust
areas identified in the document is acceleration in the economy and achievement
of long term goals by increasing the share of manufacturing in the State economy at
the annual rate of 14% ultimately reaching the target of 22% by 2023.
       1.3 To maintain its position as a progressive State, the Government has
recently taken proactive steps like the release of Vision 2023 Tamil Nadu document,
formulation of Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Act, Rules and Regulations,
along with Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders (Public Private Partnership and
Procurement) Act and Rules. The United Nations Report on Probity in Public
Procurement has recognised Tamil Nadu as the first State to have a legislative
frame work to deal with Public Private Partnership procurement. Recognising the
importance of quality infrastructure, the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development
Fund (TNIDF) and a Project Preparation Fund (PPF) have also been set up and
in 2013-2014, Rs.2000 crore has been provided for the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure
Development Fund and Rs.200 crore for the Project Preparation Fund.

      1.4 Traditionally, Tamil Nadu has been in the vanguard of
industrialization among the Indian States. The State has had a strong presence
in textiles, engineering, automobile production and auto components
manufacture and recently in Information and Bio Technology sectors.
__________________________________________________________
1
 Source : Union Planning Commission, Government of India
* Source: Central Statistical Organisation (CSO), Government of India

6
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

      Tamil Nadu has always been a safe haven for the investors owing to a favourable
business climate, excellent infrastructure for trade and investment, outstanding law
and order maintenance, peaceful industrial relations and healthy socio-economic
reforms.

      1.5     Among       the     Indian      States,    Tamil     Nadu       is    now
ranked:
              •       First in the number of factories
              •       First in the number of workers employed in the factories sector
              •       Third in Gross Industrial Output and
              •       Third in Net Value Addition

       1.6 More than 3000 foreign JVs and 100% foreign subsidiaries including
Ford, Hyundai, Saint Gobain, Nokia, Motorola, Dell, Renault-Nissan, and Daimler,
in addition to major local manufacturers like Ashok Leyland, TVS group, Titan,
Murugappa group, cement companies etc., have manufacturing bases in Tamil
Nadu with a Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) of over $ 10.0 billion. Tamil Nadu
is increasingly becoming the choice of destination for foreign investors, which
provides them with a global reach. Ranked among the top three Indian States in
terms of Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), Tamil Nadu is a dream come true for all
those looking for a rich cultural heritage, a highly productive work force, excellent
infrastructure and cost-effective operations. Each of these facts is substantiated by
an enviable track record.
       1.7 Tamil Nadu is to-date the only State to attract seven automobile giants-Ford,
Hyundai, Mitsubishi, Daimler, Nissan, Renault and BMW. As on date, Chennai, the
capital of Tamil Nadu and the Detroit of South Asia, has an installed capacity to produce
13,80,000 cars and about 3,50,000 commercial vehicles each year.


       1.8 Caterpillar, USA and Komatsu, Japan chose Chennai to establish their
large earth moving equipment manufacturing plants. Chennai is now emerging as
one of the “Top 10” Global Automobile manufacturing centres. The State is also
the preferred choice for over 350 large auto component manufacturers accounting
for more than 35% of India’s auto components production.
      1.9 A comparison of the total operating costs across various investment
destinations in India would place Tamil Nadu ahead of the rest and in a very
favourable position to offer investors opportunities they would find hard to resist.
Chennai serves as the most cost effective production base for export markets by
many MNCs.



                                                                                        7
                                INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

      1.10 Tamil Nadu is known as a major exporter of Leather and Leather
Goods, Textiles and Garments, Automobiles and Components, Engineering Goods,
Castings, Pharmaceuticals, Spices, Agro-Products, Marine Products, Electronic
Hardware and, of course, Software.
       1.11 Tamil Nadu offers an abundance of relevant skills, robust IT
infrastructure and easily available real estate. Chennai is the choice of international
finance majors as well - Stanchart, World Bank, Citibank and ABN-AMRO Bank
have set up their back office operations in the city. BPOs and off-shore operations
have also preferred to operate from Chennai. With more than 1,780 IT / IT Enabled
Services (ITES) companies, over 3,75,000 professionals and annual IT exports of
Rs.50,000 crore, Chennai, with its IT Bay Area, towers over other major cities as an
IT and ITES powerhouse2.
       1.12 Tamil Nadu has an enrolment of over 1,82,000 graduate engineers
from 553 engineering colleges, 1,20,000 diploma holders from 501 polytechnic
institutes, 9,05,000 science and arts graduates, and over 35,000 software engineers3.
The State is blessed with a talent pool of keen minds, well-honed expertise and
specialized educational institutions like Anna University (the World’s largest
engineering university), Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, the National
Institute of Technology, Trichy and the Madras Institute of Technology and many
other private institutions that serve as alma mater to some of the sharpest brains
in the country, from where a legion of top notch engineers gear up to take on the
world. The Government has set up the Indian Institute of Information Technology
at Srirangam near Tiruchirapalli recently to take higher technical education to the
next level for the coming decades.
       1.13 The State also complements its skilled manpower with salubrious
working conditions, a peaceful industrial climate, committed workforce and
extremely competitive wage rates that offer substantial cost savings. In short, when it
comes to human resources, Tamil Nadu is the “Number 1” in skilled manpower availability.
       1.14 The installed capacity of conventional energy sources in Tamil Nadu is
11,415 MW. Tamil Nadu is the undisputed Leader in wind power generation with
an installed capacity of 7,145 MW. The renewable energy capacity of the Tamil
Nadu is 30% of the total installed renewable energy capacity in the country. The
State has recently unveiled the Solar Policy proposing to add 3000 MW solar power
by 2015.

_____________________________________________
2
  Source : IT Department Policy Note 2013-2014
3
  Source: Higher Education Department Policy Note 2013-2014.
4
  Source : Tamil Nadu Maritime Board


8
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

1.15 With the second largest coastline in the country of around 1076 kms, a
network of 3 major ports and 23 minor ports4 that includes India’s most efficient
container port at Chennai, Tamil Nadu has effectively harnessed the might of the
oceans to provide the perfect gateway for investors to reach out to the world. Its
climate favours year-round port operations.

       1.16 Travelling within Tamil Nadu or to any other part of the world from
the State has been made extremely convenient, through extensive connectivity in
the skies, on land and across the waters. 650 plus direct international flights a week
and passenger traffic of over 4.50 million per year make Chennai’s international
airport the perfect launch pad, with excellent connectivity to Europe, USA, the
Gulf and East Asia5.

       1.17 Be it apparel or leather, food or textile processing, biotechnology or
IT, the State Government of Tamil Nadu has developed industry-specific parks
that help promote products from each industry. In the Private Public Partnership
(PPP) mode, the Government of Tamil Nadu has promoted the Mahindra World
City, a modern self-contained industrial park, on the outskirts of Chennai. This
is India’s first operational Special Economic Zone (SEZ) created with world class
infrastructure, offering Plug and Play facilities.

2.      THE NEED FOR A NEW INDUSTRIAL POLICY

       In the post-liberalisation era, Tamil Nadu introduced Industrial Polices in
1992, 2003 and 2007. The Vision 2023 Tamil Nadu document which lays out
the road map of development for the State, aims to achieve a consistent economic
growth rate of 11% per annum in a highly inclusive manner and to identify and
remove the bottlenecks in development, prioritise critical infrastructure projects,
and work to propel the State of Tamil Nadu to the forefront of development. The
document identifies 10 themes for the State which includes inclusive growth, world
class infrastructure and healthy investment climate. The Vision 2023 Tamil Nadu
document envisages a 14% annual growth in the manufacturing sector and an
investment of Rs.15 lakh crore in the next 10 years. In order to attain the growth
targets fixed for the respective economic indicators, the formulation of a New
Industrial Policy has become imperative.

3.      OBJECTIVES
     1. To position Tamil Nadu as the most preferred State for manufacturing, with
        a reputation for efficiency and competitiveness and to attract incremental
        investments of over 10% every year in Manufacturing.
______________________________
5
  Source : Airports Authority of India

                                                                                     9
                                INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU



     2. To achieve an annual average growth rate of 14% in the manufacturing sector
        in Tamil Nadu.
     3. To raise the investment in infrastructure from the existing 4–5% of the GSDP
        gradually to 10% by 2015 and further to 11.5% from 2019 as envisaged in the
        Vision 2023 Tamil Nadu document.
     4. To make Tamil Nadu the innovation hub and the knowledge capital of
        India, on the strength of world class institutions in various fields and the
        best human talent
     5. To enhance Tamil Nadu’s position in high technology industries including
        aerospace, nano technology etc.,
     6. To achieve rapid industrialisation of the Southern districts of Tamil Nadu
     7. To achieve inclusive and sustainable industrial development in Tamil Nadu
     8. To create gainful employment opportunities for an additional 2.0 million
        persons before 2016
     9. To double exports from Tamil Nadu by 2016.

4.      APPROACH
      Keeping the above objectives in mind, this Policy adopts a multi-pronged
approach of :
        (i)     providing world-class infrastructure,
        (ii)    special emphasis on priority sectors like automobiles, bio-technology,
                electronic hardware and aerospace
        (iii)   improving the quality of human resources and
        (iv)    providing attractive incentives to the investors.

5.      STRATEGY
5.1     INFRASTRUCTURE:
        5.1.1 Recognising that world class infrastructure, both industrial and social,
is a prerequisite for rapid industrialisation, the Government of Tamil Nadu aims at
creating and upgrading the existing infrastructure to world standards. Towards this
end, the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board, headed by the Hon’ble
Chief Minister, has been constituted and the State has released the Vision 2023
Tamil Nadu document, outlining the growth trajectory for the next decade.
       5.1.2. The Government of India, on its part, has initiated action to prepare
a comprehensive master plan for the Chennai - Bengaluru Corridor which will
identify the infrastructural bottlenecks in this region and the projects required
to remove them, with the assistance of the Japanese International Corporation
Agency(JICA).

10
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

       5.1.3 Tamil Nadu is already endowed with a relatively better infrastructure
among the Indian states. However, rapid industrialisation and growing urbanisation
require a further impetus to investment in infrastructure. Taking note of this, the
State Government has initiated steps to address the issues of power availability, land
for industries, skilled manpower, roads and ports, industrial water etc. To achieve
the targeted growth rates during the XII plan period (2012–2017), substantial
investments are needed to create additional capacities in various components of
infrastructure. The following are the targets for capacity addition during the XII
plan period:
   • To invest not less than US $ 30 billion, through private and public sectors,
     in infrastructure development
   • To increase the power generation capacity adequately to meet the future
     demand by commissioning Mega and Ultra Mega Power Projects
   • To establish a land bank of at least 53,000 acres throughout the State
   • To augment industrial water supply
   • To augment capacities for handling and safe disposal of industrial effluents
     and solid wastes
   • To establish Corridors of Excellence
   • To improve Port connectivity; to upgrade the minor ports at Nagapattinam,
     Colachel, Cuddalore and Manappadu as major ports and to upgrade other
     ports as Intermediate ports
   • To augment social infrastructure like housing, health care, technical
     education/skill development, etc. to support the manufacturing sector.
     5.1.4 Specifically, the Government will endeavour to implement the
following flagship infrastructure projects, in public or private sector:
        •   An aeropark
        •   A logistics hub close to the Airport
        •   A Biotechnology Enterprise Zone
        •   A Heavy Engineering Hub
        •   Four Special Investment Regions for Manufacturing industries
        •   High-speed passenger trains in the Chennai-Coimbatore, Chennai –
            Madurai – Kanniyakumari and Madurai – Salem – Bangalore sectors
        •   Industrial Corridor of Excellence between Madurai – Tirunelveli –
            Thoothukudi
        •   Creating Expressways, widening major national highways and four-
            laning of major State Highways
        •   Peripheral Ring Road and Outer Ring Road for Chennai and other
            major cities
        •   A Liquefied natural Gas (LNG) Terminal and gas transmission and
            distribution pipeline infrastructure

                                                                                    11
                                 INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

       5.1.5 In terms of the various components of Infrastructure, the strategy will
be as follows:

5.2    Power:

       5.2.1 The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited
(TANGEDCO) has embarked on an ambitious plan to augment the generating
capacity by 6200 MW in the next few years. The State Government has also been
encouraging the development of renewable energy in a big way, with particular
emphasis on wind and solar power. The Government has already unveiled the Solar
Energy Policy, 2012 to lead the country by generating 3000 MW of Solar power by
20156. The endeavour of the Government is to make the State power surplus once
again.
       5.2.2 For the industries, the Government would offer the following incentives
relating to Power supply :
     5.2.2.1 Power supply to Industries: All units with demand of more than 10
MVA will be provided with reliable supply at 110 KV or 230 KV level depending
on the eligibility. Uninterrrupted power supply will be given to the projects if the
same is covered by MoU or Government Order (non-MoU).
     5.2.2.2 Inclusion of Investment made in captive power plants: Captive power
plants will be treated as eligible fixed assets for the purpose of the structured package
of assistance. “Captive Power Plant” for this purpose means a power plant set up to
generate electricity primarily for the units’ own use.
      5.2.2.3 VAT refund on Capital Goods for establishing captive power plants:
Refund of 50% of the VAT paid on purchase of capital goods exclusively for captive
power generation within the construction period, provided they are manufactured
in Tamil Nadu.

1.3    Water:
       Promotion of desalination plants and waste water treatment and recycling
plants: Developers of Industrial parks/ SEZs/ Industry clusters, etc. will be provided
incentives to set up desalination plants/ waste water treatment and recycling plants.
Also, the Government will encourage industries to undertake large waste water
treatment and recycling plants on the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode for
treating urban sewage to industrial grade water. The industries will be encouraged
to adopt measures for rainwater harvesting system to recharge the aquifers in the
industrial area.
_____________________________________
6
  Source: Tamil Nadu Solar Energy Policy 2012.

12
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

5.4    Road/Rail Network :
       5.4.1 Road – High Speed Rail Corridor with Industrial Hubs: The
Government will endeavour to create high-speed rail corridors with support from
Government of India to connect major cities of Tamil Nadu. Development nodes
will be formed all along the proposed corridors.

       5.4.2 Widening of State Highways: The Government has taken the initiative
to augment the road capacity in tune with the growing needs of development.
The Comprehensive Road Infrastructure Development Programme (CRIDP) is a
flagship scheme wherein Government of Tamil Nadu has sanctioned Rs.14,872
crore for widening and improvements in 50,610 km roads and 2,020 number of
culverts, bridges and protective works to develop the road infrastructure facilities
since 2004–2005. As of March 2013, 95% of State Highways in Tamil Nadu are
multi–lane.
      During 2013–2014 alone, the Government has sanctioned Rs.3,286 crore
under CRIDP for undertaking various road projects. The Government has provided
Rs.2,500 crore for widening of 1,697 km roads and improvement of 3,529 km roads
and construction of 229 culverts, bridges etc.

        5.4.3 Industrial Corridors of Excellence: The Government in collaboration
with the Government of India will implement the Chennai- Bengaluru Industrial
Corridor. Similarly, the Government will also promote an Industrial Corridor
along Madurai –Tirunelveli – Thoothukudi. The Corridors will have excellent
road and rail connectivity, specific investment regions and other industrial and
social infrastructure like townships, schools, hospitals etc.

      The Oragadam Industrial Corridor Project to provide infrastructure in
the vast developing industrial corridor in Oragadam near Chennai has led to
the      4-laning of the Vandalur–Wallajabad road as well as Singaperumal Koil –
Sriperumbudur road and further improvements are being done for ensuring better
connectivity to the industrial areas at a cost of over Rs.600 crore.

       5.4.4 Access Roads: The Government will create an Industrial Infrastructure
Corpus Fund and earmark a sum of Rs.100 crores annually for the provision of
access roads to industrial parks promoted by SIPCOT, TIDCO and their SEZs and
approved private industrial parks.

      5.4.5 Promotion of Truck Terminals: The State Industries Promotion
Corporation of Tamil Nadu(SIPCOT) will promote Truck terminals in all their
major industrial parks. In the case of Private Industrial Parks, the Developer will be
mandated to provide adequate Truck Parking Bays.

                                                                                    13
                                INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

       5.4.6 The Government will build a Chennai Peripheral Ring Road with
8-lanes and 2 service lanes on both sides covering a length of 162 km which will
connect Mamallapuram to Ennore Port with links to NH 45, NH 4, NH 205 and
NH 5. The construction cost of the Ring Road is assessed as Rs. 6500 crore. Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) has expressed its willingness to fund the
project. Construction of this road will enhance connectivity between various ports
and serve the industrial hinterland adjoining the Chennai City.

5.5.   Seaport:
       5.5.1 Minor Port Development on PPP mode: 13 of the 23 minor ports in
the State have been offered to the Private sector for establishment of captive facilities.
The Government will facilitate up-gradation of the minor ports at Nagapattinam,
Colachel, Cuddalore and Manappadu into all weather deep sea ports and the other
ports as Intermediate ports.

      5.5.2 Port connectivity: The Government in collaboration with the National
Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Government of India will improve
the connectivity to the Chennai and Ennore Ports. The Government will speed
up the implementation of the Chennai Outer Ring Road Project (Phase II) and
the Northern Port Connectivity Road, providing a direct access to the Ennore and
Kattupalli ports from the National Highways No. 5.

      5.5.3 Multi-level car parking facility: The Government will facilitate
construction of Multi-Level Car Parking Terminals in all the seaports.

       5.5.4 Container handling facilities in Ennore and Chennai ports: The
Government will take up with Government of India to expedite establishment
of the Container Terminal in Ennore Port and the Mega Container Terminal in
Chennai Port.

       5.5.5 Third Port for Chennai: Currently, M/s Larson & Toubro (L&T)
in collaboration with TIDCO has established India’s largest ship building facility
along with a Port in Kattupalli, Ponneri taluk, north of Chennai. This Port also
has container handling facilities apart from other berths and marine infrastructure
including ship lifting required for ship building.

       5.5.6 LNG Terminal and Gas Grid: The Tamil Nadu Industrial Development
Corporation (TIDCO) has signed an agreement with Indian Oil Corporation
Limited (IOCL) to establish a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Terminal at Ennore
Port, near Chennai through a joint venture. The vaporised LNG will be supplied


14
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

to Power Plants, Petroleum Refineries, Fertilizer Plants and other user industries,
Transportation and Domestic sectors. This TIDCO/IOCL Joint Venture will also
construct Gas pipeline infrastructure to carry about 20 million cubic metres of
vaporised LNG to various demand centres in the State.

5.6      Rail Connectivity:
         5.6.1 Ministry of Railways will be persuaded:
            • To provide sub-ways for pedestrian crossing at congested locations
            • To provide fast trains to Maraimalai Nagar Industrial area
            • To increase the frequency of trains in the industrial belts.
         5.6.2 Rail link between Avadi and Guduvancherry : –
      To provide rail link for the benefit of highly industrialised areas falling
between Avadi and Guduvancherry and to decongest the area, the State Government
and the Southern Railways have initiated the process for establishment of broad-
gauge rail link between Avadi and Guduvancherry passing through the important
industrial areas in Sriperumbudur and Oragadam with a spur line (1.5 Km) from
Sriperumbudur to Irungattukkottai.

     5.6.3 Strengthening Rail connectivity to Chennai and Ennore ports: The
Government will take up de-bottlenecking the rail connectivity to Chennai and
Ennore Ports for speedier movement of cargo to these ports.

5.7   Waste Disposal:
      Provision of waste disposal facilities: The Government will facilitate
hazardous waste disposal facilities in all major Industrial parks and SEZs.

5.8       Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board :
         The Government accords high priority to augment the infrastructure of the State and
accordingly, Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB)has been constituted
in 2013 under the Chairmanship of Hon’ble Chief Minister to function as an institutional
framework for conceptualisation, prioritisation, sanction and speedy implementation of
critical infrastructure projects.

5.8.1 High Power Infrastructure Monitoring Committee:
      A High Power Infrastructure Monitoring Committee will be formed under
the Chairmanship of Chief Secretary, which will
      • approve Industrial Parks and related infrastructure
      • act as Single window Committee and accord in-principle composite approval
        to all Public Private Partnership (PPP) projects which are not covered by the

                                                                                          15
                               INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

          TNIDB
      •   consider conversion of land use from agricultural or any other zoning
          classification to “Industrial use”
      •   address all policy issues relating to infrastructure projects
      •   formulate and approve Special Investment Regions
      •   facilitate inter-sector linkages
      •   decide on the extent of Government support and
      •   resolve process-related issues.

       5.8.2 This apex committee will function as the single window system and
the first contact for setting up any infrastructure project on PPP mode.

5.9       Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund:
       A Viability Gap Funding (VGF) mechanism at the State level has been
introduced for PPP projects in infrastructure. This will be available for infrastructure
projects which have not availed the National VGF from Government of India.

5.10 Special Investment Regions:
       The Government will promote a minimum of 4 Special Investment Regions
in the North, South, West and Central districts of Tamil Nadu.

5.11 Petroleum, Chemicals and Petrochemicals Investment Regions (PCPIR):
      The Government will endeavour to implement and commission the PCPIR in
Cuddalore and Nagapattinam districts before 2015 after getting necessary approval
from the Government of India. Also, efforts will be made to promote one more
PCPIR in the southern coastal districts of Tamil Nadu.

5.12 Heavy Engineering Hub:
       A manufacturing hub for Heavy Engineering products and components will
be established in Thiruvallur District, north of Chennai Metropolitan area.

5.13 Land
        5.13.1 Creation of Land Bank: The Government will create a Land Bank
of at least 53,000 acres for the promotion of Industrial parks.
       5.13.2 The Government will make available lands to major investments
from its existing developed industrial parks and also endeavour to arrange for lands
following inclusive methods like land pooling, which will benefit both the land
owner and the industry.


16
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

5.14 Industrial Parks
      5.14.1 New Industrial Parks: Government will promote at least one or more
new industrial parks in all the districts of Tamil Nadu through SIPCOT, TIDCO,
SIDCO or through private sector.

        5.14.2 To accelerate industrial growth in Southern Districts, Government
has already permitted SIPCOT to establish new industrial parks in 9 Southern
Districts viz., of Pudukkottai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivagangai, Ramanathapuram,
Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari. An Industrial Park
is already being set up at Madurai.

       5.14.3 Bio-Park: Biotechnology and Information Technology, have been
frequently referred to as the technologies of 21st century. Tamil Nadu was one of
the few States which saw its potential early and formulated a separate Biotechnology
Policy a decade ago. The State established its first biotechnology incubation
park, the TIDCO Centre for Life Sciences (TICEL) Biotechnology              Park I in
Chennai with technical collaboration from Cornell University, USA which became
operational in November, 2004 and remains fully occupied to-day. A Biotechnology
Core Instrumentation Facility is being established at TICEL II, with the state-of-
the art equipment for Microbiology, Molecular Biology, fermentation, downstream
processing, purification and Analytical & Animal Cell Culture facilities. Special
focus will be continued to be given for development of this sector.
       5.14.4 Provision of Power Sub-station: If the power requirement in an
Industrial Park is in excess of 25 MVA, TNEB will provide a sub-station (230 KV
SS/110 KV SS depending on the power requirement) at its cost. The land for the
sub-station will be provided by the Developer agency free of cost.
       5.14.5 Upgradation of Infrastructure in existing Industrial Parks and
estates: A corpus fund “Industrial Park Infrastructure Maintenance Fund” will be
created with an annual contribution of Rs.100 crore.
      5.14.6 Social and supporting Infrastructure: It is proposed to reserve
10% of the Land area for promotion of social infrastructure like housing, service
apartments, hospitals, restaurants, etc., in the industrial parks.
      5.14.7 Promotion of common facilities: The Industrial Estate Developer
agencies will be encouraged to promote common Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP)
and Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) apart from providing a site for solid waste
disposal.

      5.14.8    Reservation of land for promotion of MSME Projects:             The


                                                                                   17
                                   INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

Government has already issued orders for allotment of a minimum of 20% of the
total area of land for MSME units in all the Industrial Estates to be developed by
SIPCOT through Small Industries Development Corporation(SIDCO) .

       5.14.9 Exclusive Solar Manufacturing Facilities: The Government of Tamil
Nadu will promote integrated solar generation and manufacturing parks which
will house the entire ecosystem for solar manufacturing including wafer, cell and
module making, and Balance of System(BoS) component manufacturing and lands
will be identified for development of these exclusive solar manufacturing parks7.

6.     PRIORITY SECTORS
       6.1 The Government will give a special thrust to:
           • Automobile and Auto components Sector
           • Renewable Energy Equipment manufacturing Industries.
           • Aerospace industry and
           • Bio-technology and Pharmaceuticals Sector.
      6.2 The Government has formulated specific policies for these sectors
aimed at creating enabling infrastructure and offering special incentives. Further,
Aerospace industries will be given special importance and a specific policy will be
formulated for this sector.

7.     SKILL DEVELOPMENT
      7.1 Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation: The Tamil Nadu Skill
Development Mission implemented through a society has been reorganised as a
Special Purpose Vehicle(SPV) with participation from private sector under section
25 of the Companies Act, 1956 as a body corporate in the name, Tamil Nadu
Skill Development Corporation for providing skill training through different
departments.

       7.1.1 Thrust will be given for creating a skilled and balanced workforce
with a special focus to enable women to enhance their employability. The
Government will take the lead in partnering with the industry in developing
a curriculum for the industrial training institutes to make their graduates
industry-ready. Technical institutes and polytechnics will be incentivised to align
themselves with the industry needs and organise skill development programmes
jointly to improve the employability of their students.
___________________________________
7
  Source: Tamil Nadu Solar Energy Policy 2012.


18
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014



       7.1.2 Industry-Institution Collaboration: A framework for industry-
institution collaboration and public-private partnership for ITIs, Polytechnics and
Engineering colleges will be formulated. The Government will facilitate setting
up of Technology Parks within and around Higher Learning Institutions and
Universities.
       7.1.3 Cluster level skill development: This Initiative will focus on specific
existing clusters in the auto, leather, textiles, and electronic hardware sectors. A
Cluster Human Resources (HR) Skills Development Committee will be established
in each major cluster with the membership of engineering colleges, polytechnics,
ITIs, arts and science colleges in the vicinity and the participating industries to set
targets for training and the revision of course content of these institutions.
      7.1.4 Training Subsidy: The Government will offer training subsidy as an
incentive on a case to case basis taking into account the capacity of employment
generation and the potential for significant improvement of skills.

      7.2 Inclusive Development:
       7.2.1 As envisaged in the Vision 2023 Tamil Nadu document, Tamil Nadu
will exhibit a highly inclusive growth pattern and will be a poverty free state with
opportunities for gainful and productive environment for all those who seek it, and
will provide care for the disadvantaged, vulnerable and the destitute in the State.

       7.2.2 Industries employing differently -abled persons would be incentivised
suitably, by supporting skill development programs to enable their productive
employment.

8.    TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
       8.1 Technology Incubation centres: Realising that technology is a
key element contributing to productivity, quality, competitiveness and market
acceptability of products and that technology and business incubators have emerged
as useful instruments for innovation, the Government will encourage development
of “Centres of Excellence and Innovation,” in areas such as chip and electronic
hardware design, leather product design and automotive design in collaboration
with academic institutions of excellence, industry and Government of India to
develop a pool of Technocrats. The centres will also network with Angel Investors
and Venture Capitalists (VCs) to provide mentoring and financial support to the
start-ups. The centre will enable the tenant companies to gradually mature over
a period of 2-3 years and then shift to a commercial place for transacting actual
business.

                                                                                     19
                              INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU



       8.2 Subsidy for Quality certification / Patent registration: The
Government will reimburse 50% of the expenditure incurred by the industrial
units subject to a maximum of Rs.1.00 lakh, in getting the BIS, ISO 9000 / 14000
or any other national or international certification or patent registration.
        8.3 Promotion of R & D: In order to encourage Research and Development
in manufacturing sector, companies investing in R & D facilities will be incentivised
as follows:

     8.3.1 For capital goods to be used in setting up hi-technology R & D centers
VAT would be zero rated. Such capital goods shall not be used for commercial
production and be used exclusively for R & D.

9. FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTRE
       Appreciating the significance of the contribution of the Services sector to
the growth of the manufacturing sector, Government has planned to set up an
exclusive Integrated Financial Services Centre which shall house leading national
and international financial intermediaries including banks, insurance companies,
mutual funds, consultants, brokerages etc.

10. INVESTMENT PROMOTION

       Tamil Nadu Investment Promotion Programme : The Tamil Nadu Investment
Promotion Programme has been launched in the state with financial assistance
from JICA to further improve the investment climate through strengthening the
policy framework and enhancing the quality of urban infrastructure.

11.   EXPORT PROMOTION
       Tamil Nadu is a major exporter of a variety of manufactured goods like
automobiles, auto components, Engineering goods, Textiles and Garments, Leather
products, Electronic Hardware, Chemicals, etc., apart from Software and Support
services. Tamil Nadu’s exports stood at a value of Rs.1,80,179 crore during 2012-
20138. The Government has set a target to double the exports by 2016.


12.   LABOUR SECTOR INITIATIVES
       Flexibility in labour laws will be adopted without compromising labour
welfare. Subject to applicable labour laws and within the parameters of the Industrial
Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 (Central Act 20 of 1946), flexibility in
employment conditions including flexible working hours for women and shorter

20
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

and longer duration of working hours, 24x7 operations (3 shifts), employment of
women in the night shifts and flexibility in hiring contract labour will be permitted.

13.    MULTI-STOREYED BUILDINGS APPROVAL
       Industrial buildings exceeding 15 mts height but not exceeding 2 floors
will not be treated as Multi-Storeyed Buildings (MSBs, attracting declaration of
MSB areas and application of special rules for MSBs under the Town and Country
Planning Act). An additional Floor Space Index (FSI) incentive of 50% will be
given for non-MSB flatted tiny, small and medium scale industries.

14.    SINGLE WINDOW MECHANISM
        14.1 To avoid procedural delays in getting statutory clearances from various
authorities, the Government of Tamil Nadu has established a Single Window
facilitation mechanism under the Guidance Bureau to accord in-principle composite
approval for pre- project clearances at the State Government level. A Committee
headed by the Chief Secretary will monitor the progress of final approvals of all
such cases.
       14.2 The Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO)
will be mandated to facilitate various Infrastructure projects including Power, Port
development, SEZ, waste treatment, handling and disposal, etc.

15.    INCENTIVES FOR MANUFACTURING SECTOR
     15.1 Manufacturing units other than those belonging to categories listed in
Annexure- A will be eligible for incentives under this policy.

       15.2 For the purpose of administering the fiscal incentives, the districts of
the state are classified as follows :

                     A - Chennai, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram(3 districts)
                     B - Other than A & C (20 districts)
                     C - Southern Districts(9 districts)

      15.2.1 “Southern Districts” for this purpose means the Districts of Madurai,
Theni, Dindigul, Sivagangai, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli,
Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari

_______________________________________________
8
  Source : Federation of Indian Export Organisation(FIEO)


                                                                                    21
                              INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

       15.3 For the purpose of administering the fiscal incentives, the following
are 4 categories of different investment ranges along with the employment criteria:-

 “Mega Project” means a manufacturing project, new or expansion, located in
A & B category districts with the following investment ranges and creating the
employment stipulated therein.

        Category                      Investment Range (Rs. in crore)
                                         A                           B
      Mega Projects             Above 500 – 1500             Above 350- 1000
                            creating an employment of     creating an employment
                                  300 in 3 years             of 200 in 3 years

“Super Mega Project-A” means a manufacturing project, new or expansion, located
in A & B category districts with the following investment ranges and creating the
employment stipulated therein.

        Category                    Investment Range (Rs. in crore)
                                       A                         B
     Super Mega A          Above 1500 –3000 creating   Above 1000 – 2000
                           an employment of 400 in creating an employment
                                    5 years             of 300 in 5 years
“Super Mega Project-B” means a manufacturing project, new or expansion, located
in A & B category districts with the following investment ranges and creating the
employment stipulated therein.

        Category                       Investment Range (Rs. in crore)
                                         A                         B
      Super Mega B              Above 3000 – 5000         Above 2000 – 4000
                            creating an employment of creating an employment
                                   600 in 6 years          of 500 in 6 years
“Ultra Mega Project” means a manufacturing project, new or expansion, located
in A & B category districts with the following investment ranges and creating the
employment stipulated therein.

        Category                      Investment Range (Rs. in crore)
                                         A                           B
                                    Above 5000                  Above 4000
       Ultra Mega           creating an employment of     creating an employment
                                   700 in 7 years            of 600 in 7 years

22
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014



Note : The investment range and employment criteria are different for C districts
(Southern Districts) and these are defined separately in the Policy.

    15.4 The investment period will be reckoned from the date of executing an
MoU with the Government or any other date, as may be defined by the Government.

      15.5 Government will approve higher incentives /concessions and relax the
conditions mentioned in the policy for deserving cases giving due weightage to
investment, direct and indirect employment generated and potential for attracting
further investment through vendors and ancillaries.
       15.6 New manufacturing facilities set up by an existing company within the
existing facility (or) in a new site (or) in an adjacent vacant site for manufacturing a
product already being manufactured in the existing unit or an entirely new product,
would be treated as an expansion unit for the purpose of incentives under the
policy, subject to preservation of production volume/value in the older unit.

       15.7 Industrial units in existence in Tamil Nadu for over 10 years will be
given suitable extra benefits for expansion projects over and above the normal
structured package of incentives, subject to investing the minimum level of
investment mentioned above.

      15.8 Employment criteria is a mandatory condition to claim fiscal incentive.
       15.9 Eligible Fixed Asset(EFA) is defined at Annexure – B. The components
of an approved Industrial Park is mentioned at Annexure – C. The definition for
Direct Employment or Direct Job is at Annexure – E.
       15.10 The clause 15.4 to 15.9 are general in nature and applicable to all the
three categories of districts uniformly.
16.   STANDARD INCENTIVES
       All major industries in categories A&B districts will be eligible for the
following standard incentives:

       16.1 Capital Subsidy and Electricity Tax Exemption: Irrespective of the
location of the project, new or expansion manufacturing units will be given a back-
ended capital subsidy and electricity tax exemption on power purchased from the
Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd. (TANGEDCO) or
generated and consumed from captive sources based on employment and investment
in fixed assets /eligible assets as the case may be, made within the investment period
as detailed below:

                                                                                      23
                                INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


                               Direct                           Electricity tax
     Investment in fixed                       Capital
                             employment                    exemption (in number
     assets/eligible fixed                  subsidy (Rs.
                                                            of years) from date of
     assets (Rs. in crore)   (in numbers)     in crore)
                                                           commercial production
                    5 - 50        100              0.30             2 years
                 50 - 100         200              0.60             3 years
                100 - 200         300              1.00             4 years
              200 to 500          400              1.50             5 years
               500 - 1500         600              1.75             5 years
              1500 -3000          800              2.00             5 years
          3000 and above         1000              2.25             5 years

16.1.1 New or expansion manufacturing units located within SIPCOT Industrial
parks in respect of A & B districts will be provided an additional capital subsidy of
50% over and above the eligible limit, enumerated in the table above.
16.1.2 New or expansion manufacturing units located outside the SIPCOT
Industrial Parks in B & C districts will be provided an additional capital subsidy
of 10% and 25% respectively over and above the eligible limit, enumerated in the
table above.


16.2 Stamp Duty concession: 50% Exemption from Stamp duty on lease or sale
of land meant for industrial use shall be offered for projects located in Industrial
parks promoted by SIPCOT in A and B category districts.          In the case of Ultra
Mega projects, it will be 100%, irrespective of location. Normal registration
charges will however apply in these cases. For computation of stamp duty, property
in such industrial parks would be valued at actual land or building value paid by the
manufacturing units to such industrial park.

16.3 Environmental Protection Infrastructure subsidy: Dedicated Effluent
Treatment Plants (ETP) and / or Hazardous Waste Treatment Storage and Disposal
Facility (HWTSDF) set up by individual manufacturing units would be eligible for
an Environment Protection Infrastructure subsidy of Rs.30 lakhs or 25% of capital
cost of setting up such ETP/ HWTSDF, whichever is less.

       Individual Manufacturing Units adopting Zero Effluent or Waste Water
Discharge, Clean Development Mechanism and Emissions Trading Mechanism
will be given a higher amount of subsidy on a case-to-case basis.



24
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014


17.     STRUCTURED PACKAGE OF INCENTIVES
       Apart from the above standard incentives, Mega, Super-mega A, Super-mega
B and Ultra-mega projects will be eligible for a structured package of incentives as
detailed below (For A & B category districts) if they satisfy both the investment and
the minimum employment criteria fixed for each category.

  Invest
                 Investment Range
  ment                                            Fiscal Incentives Offered
                    (Rs.in crore)
 Category
             A Districts    B Districts          For A & B group districts
      Mega   Above 500 –     Above 350- Net output VAT+CST paid will be given
                1500            1000     as Investment promotion subsidy/
                                         soft loan for 10 years from the date of
               creating      creating an commercial production with a ceiling
              an employ     employ ment of 80% of investment made in EFA
               ment of       of 200 in 3 within the investment period.
               300 in 3         years
                 years                   In respect of expansion projects the cap
                                         will be 70%. Base volume principle and
                                         sliding scale will be applied.

 Super       Above 1500   Above 1000 Net output VAT+CST paid will be given
 Mega A        –3000        – 2000    as Investment promotion subsidy/
                                      soft loan for 12 years from date of
              creating an creating an commercial production with a ceiling
             employment employment of 90% of investment made in EFA
               of 400 in   of 300 in within the investment period. If ceiling
                5 years     5 years   is not reached within 12 years, addl.
                                      period up to 6 years will be considered
                                           In respect of expansion projects the cap
                                           will be 80%. Base volume principle and
                                           sliding scale will be applied.
                                           Refund of VAT paid on capital goods
                                           will be given as subsidy during the
                                           investment period.
                                           However, this subsidy will be included
                                           for capping of incentive based on Net
                                           Output VAT+CST     [




                                                                                   25
                             INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


     Super    Above 3000 Above 2000      Net output VAT+CST paid will be given
     Mega B      – 5000     – 4000       as Investment promotion subsidy/
                creating  creating an    softloan for 14 years from date of
               an employ employ ment     commercial production with a ceiling
                ment of   of 500 in 6    of 100% of investment made in EFA
                600 in 6     years       within the investment period. If ceiling
                  years                  is not reached within 14 years, addl.
                                         period up to 7 years will be considered
                                         In respect of expansion projects the cap
                                         will be 80%. Base volume principle and
                                         sliding scale will be applied. Refund
                                         of VAT paid on capital goods will be
                                         given as subsidy during the investment
                                         period.
                                         However, this subsidy will be included
                                         for capping of incentive based on Net
                                         Output VAT+CST.
     Ultra    Above 5000 Above 4000 Gross output VAT and CST paid will
     Mega      creating an creating an be given in the form of Investment
              employment employment Promotion Subsidy/softloan for 16
              of 700 in 7 of 600 in 7 years (or) till the cumulative availment
                  years       years    of the gross Output VAT+CST paid by
                                       the Company reaches 100% of eligible
                                       investment within the investment
                                       period, whichever is earlier.
                                         Input VAT refund as Investment
                                         Promotion subsidy for a period
                                         concurrent with the period of output
                                         VAT+CST refund or softloan.

                                         Refund of VAT paid on Capital Goods
                                         and tax paid on Works Contract will
                                         be given as subsidy during investment
                                         period. However, these two subsidies
                                         will be included for the ceiling fixed
                                         for Gross Output VAT+CST based
                                         incentive.
                                         In respect of expansion projects, the
                                         cap will be 80%. Base volume principle
                                         and Sliding scale will be applied.

26
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014



17.1 Incentivising additional employment generation:

        An additional 10% output VAT+CST paid will be given as Investment Promotion
subsidy/soft loan to the investors if they double the committed employment levels within the
investment period, which is capped to the investment made in the EFA during the Investment
period. This additional incentive will be applicable for ‘B’ and ‘C’ category districts only.
       17.2 Employment Based Incentives: With a view to encourage employment
intensive industries to set up their projects in Tamil Nadu, the current scheme of
offering employment based package of incentives will continue.
       In case, a project qualifies for any investment based package of incentives
also, as per this policy, the choice will be left to the investing company to choose
either the investment based package or employment based package. This should be
a one time choice and should be exercised in the beginning itself.
      17.3 The investment period may be extended by the Government in
deserving cases, for valid reasons.

       17.4 In the case of Investment Promotion Soft loan, the cap will be the
one fixed for the respective categories/class. In the case of Investment Promotion
subsidy, the cap will be half of the one fixed for the respective category/class. For
softloan, the interest charged will be 0.1% per annum. The project/company may
exercise an one time option for availing either Investment Promotion softloan or
subsidy before the commencement of the commercial production.

18.    INTER-DEPARTMENTAL COMMITTEE
       An Inter-Departmental Committee will be constituted under the
Chairmanship of the Principal Secretary to Government, Industries Department
to consider the applications for sanction of incentives listed in this Policy. This
Committee will include Secretaries of various departments like Finance, Energy,
Commercial Taxes and Labour. The Committee at its discretion may invite any
other Government department /agency as an Invitee. The Guidance Bureau will
be the convenor of this Committee.

19.    IMPLEMENTATION OF INCENTIVES
       The State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited
(SIPCOT) and Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) are mandated
to act as the implementation agencies for the various incentives listed out in this
Policy as per the level of investments.

                                                                                           27
                               INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


20.     MECHANISM FOR DISBURSAL OF INCENTIVES
      A suitable mechanism that ensures speed and transparency for disbursal of
incentives will be put in place.
21. CASHLESS MECHANISM
       Efforts will be made to evolve a cashless mechanism considering practical
difficulties, if any, faced by the Companies in receiving the incentives in the present
system followed.
22.     SPECIAL PACKAGE FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICTS
        22.1 With a view to ensure that the fruits of industrialisation reach the
southern districts of Tamil Nadu, Industries set up in the southern districts will be
eligible for a special package which will be higher than the package available for the
rest of the State as detailed below:
 “Mega Project” means a manufacturing project, new or expansion, located in C
category districts with the following investment ranges and creating the employment
stipulated.

       Category                      Investment Range (Rs. in crore)
      Mega Projects                          Above 200 - 500
                                creating an employment of 100 in 4 years
 “Super Mega Project-A” means a manufacturing project, new or expansion,
located in C category districts with the following investment ranges and creating
the employment stipulated.

        Category                     Investment Range (Rs. in crore)
      Super Mega A                           Above 500-1500
                                creating an employment of 250 in 5 years

  “Super Mega Project-B” means a manufacturing project, new or expansion,
located in C category districts with the following investment ranges and creating
the employment stipulated.

        Category                   Investment Range (Rs. in crore)
      Super Mega B           Above 1500 – 3000 creating an employment of
                                            350 in 6 years




28
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

“Ultra Mega Project” means a manufacturing project, new or expansion, located
in C category districts with the following investment ranges and creating the
employment stipulated.

       Category                        Investment Range (Rs. in crore)
      Ultra Mega           Above 3000 creating an employment of 500 in 7 years
      22.2 Incentivising additional employment generation: This additional
incentive will be given as enumerated in para 17.1.

       22.3 Standard incentives: All major industries set up in these districts will
be eligible for the following standard incentives :

       22.3.1 Capital Subsidy and Electricity Tax Exemption: New or expansion
manufacturing units established in Southern districts will be given a back-ended
capital subsidy and Electricity Tax exemption as enumerated in para 16.1.

       22.3.2 Stamp Duty concession: 50% Stamp duty concession shall be offered
for lands purchased/leased for the projects located in areas other than Industrial
parks promoted by SIPCOT. In the case of Ultra Mega projects and the projects
located in SIPCOT Industrial Parks, this will be 100%. Normal registration fees
will, however, apply. For computation of stamp duty, property in such industrial
parks would be valued at actual land or building value paid by the manufacturing
units to such industrial park.

       22.3.3 Environmental Protection Infrastructure subsidy: Dedicated
Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP) and / or Hazardous Waste Treatment Storage
and Disposal Facility (HWTSDF) set up by individual manufacturing units would
be eligible for an Environment Protection Infrastructure subsidy of Rs.30 lakhs or
25% of capital cost of setting up such ETP/ HWTSDF, whichever is less.

       Individual Manufacturing Units adopting Zero Effluent or Waste Water
Discharge, Clean Development Mechanism and Emissions Trading Mechanism
will be given a higher amount of subsidy on a case-to-case basis.

       22.4 Structured Package of Incentives: Apart from the standard incentives
mentioned above, Mega, Super-mega A, Super-mega B and Ultra-mega projects set
up in these districts will be eligible for a structured package of incentives as detailed
below:


                                                                                       29
                              INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


                   Investment
     Investment
                  Range (Rs.in                 Fiscal Incentives offered
      Category
                     crore)
       Mega       Above 200 to    Net output VAT+CST paid will be given as
                      500         Investment Promotion subsidy/ soft loan for 10
                                  years from the date of commercial production
                    creating an   with a ceiling of 100% of investment made in
                  employment of EFA within the investment period.
                   100 in 4 years
                                  In respect of expansion projects, the cap will be
                                  100%. Base volume principle will be applied.
                                  No Sliding scale.
     Super Mega     Above 500     Net output VAT+CST paid will be given as
         A            -1500       Investment Promotion subsidy/ soft loan for 12
                                  years from the date of commercial production
                    creating an
                   employment with a ceiling of 100% of investment made in
                  of 250 in     5 EFA within the investment period. If ceiling is
                       years      not reached within 12 years, additional period
                                  upto 6 years will be given.
                                    In respect of expansion projects, the cap will be
                                    100%. Base volume principle will be applied.
                                    No Sliding scale.
                                    Refund of VAT paid on capital goods will be
                                    given as subsidy during the investment period.
     Super Mega    1500 – 3000      Net output VAT+CST paid will be given as
         B          creating an     Investment Promotion subsidy/ soft loan for 14
                  employment of     years from the date of commercial production
                   350 in 6 years   with a ceiling of 100% of investment made in
                                    EFA within the investment period. If ceiling is
                                    not reached within 14 years, additional period
                                    upto 7 years will be given.
                                    In respect of expansion projects, the cap will be
                                    100%. Base volume principle will be applied.
                                    No Sliding scale.
                                    Refund of VAT paid on capital goods will be
                                    given as subsidy during the investment period.



30
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014


  Ultra Mega       Above 3000      Refund of gross output VAT and CST will be
                   creating an     given in the form of Investment Promotion
                 employment of     Subsidy for 16 years (or) till the cumulative
                  500 in 7 years   availment of the gross Output VAT+CST paid
                                   by the Company reaches 100% of eligible
                                   investment within the investment period,
                                   whichever is earlier.
                                   Input VAT refund as Investment Promotion
                                   subsidy for a period concurrent with the period
                                   of output VAT/CST refund or soft loan.

                                   Refund of VAT paid on Capital Goods will be
                                   given as subsidy during investment period.

                                   Refund of tax paid on Works Contract will be
                                   given as subsidy during investment period.

                                   In respect of expansion projects, the cap will be
                                   100%. Base volume principle will be applied.
                                   No Sliding scale.


Investments made below Rs.200 crores are also be eligible for receiving VAT
related fiscal incentives as follows:
  Investment within 3 years          Soft loan given would be equal to
                                              VAT paid in the
 Rs. 50 – 100 crores          First 3 years from the commencement of
                              commercial production
 Rs. 100 – 200 crores         First 4 years from the commencement of
                              commercial production

22.5 Other Incentives:

      22.5.1. SIPCOT will acquire and allot lands for starting new industries in
Southern Districts where lands in SIPCOT parks are not available. For this, the
minimum area required by the investing company shall be atleast 25 acres and
the investment should be more than Rs.50 crores. The lands required by the
company shall be barren, non-irrigated and dry land to the extent possible. Land
requirement with more than 10% wet lands will not be entertained.

                                                                                   31
                               INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

       22.5.2 The state shall allocate necessary funds for the industrial infrastructure
development of the Southern districts to create common infrastructure like roads,
water supply etc.,

     22.5.3 Uninterrupted power supply will be given to the projects set up in the
Southern Districts if they are covered by MoU or Government Order (non-MoU)


22.6 Special package of incentives to the new investments from the existing /
    prospective entrepreneurs setting up industries in existing / new SIPCOT
    Industrial Parks in Southern Districts.



        In order to encourage new investments in the new / existing SIPCOT Industrial
Parks in Southern Districts, Government has recently announced a special package
of incentives covering allotment of lands in SIPCOT Industrial Parks at subsidised
rate, Stamp duty concessions, Additional capital subsidy, Special fiscal incentives
etc,. in G.O.Ms. No.177, Industries (MIB1) dated 08.10.2013 (Annexure–D).

      22.6.1 The incentives offered in the above Government Order will cover
the southern districts of Madurai, Pudukottai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivagangai,
Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari.




32
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014


                                  ANNEXURE - A
                         List of industries ineligible for incentives


      1. Sugar mills

      2. Edible oil industries

      3. Rice, wheat and flour mills

      4. Mineral water and aerated soft drinks

      5. Alcoholic beverages

      6. Fertiliser and animal feed manufacture

      7. Mining and beneficiation

      8. Steel re-rolling, steel fabrication, stainless steel utensils

      9. Tobacco processing, cigarette or Beedi manufacture

      10. Timber or wood processing

      11. Servicing or repair facilities

      12. Services sector

      13. Cement Industry

      14. Power Generation Projects

      15. Any other industries as may be notified by Government
         from time to time.




                                                                         33
                               INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


                                 ANNEXURE – B


Definition of EFA.
      “Eligible Fixed Assets” shall mean land (including development cost such as
      fencing, construction of internal roads and other basic infrastructure facilities),
      permanent buildings, plants, indigenous machineries & equipments,
      newly imported and equipments, computer equipments, material handling
      equipments (like forklifts, cranes, etc), tools, dies, moulds, jigs and fixtures
      and similar production tools owned and used within the plant or elsewhere
      within Tamil Nadu, appliances, electrical installations, pollution control and
      quality control and laboratory equipments, fixtures, tubes, pipes, fittings and
      storage tanks, to the extent paid by the project.
             The term also includes the waste treatment facilities, transformers,
      generators, captive power plants etc., and other supportive facilities installed
      for use in the premises including installation charges. All fixed Assets should
      have been paid for and should be owned by the project. All the Fixed Assets
      (except tools, dies, moulds, jigs and fixtures and similar production tools)
      should be used and installed only within the Project Site.
            Upto 20% of total eligible assets will be allowed for the Investment
      made in captive power plants (including windmills / solar farms), provided
      50% of power is for captive consumption(refer clause 5.2.2.3 also ). The said
      term “Eligible Fixed Assets” excludes Intangible Assets*.

      * “Intangible Assets” shall mean Technical know-how fees, R & D
      expenditure, pre-operative expenses, planning fees, expenditure on design
      and development of products and prototypes etc.,
      Eligible Investment shall mean and comprise of eligible fixed assets plus the
      investment made on the following:-
         • The cost of development of the location of the Eligible Unit which the
         unit has to incur under the project.
         • The Tooling acquired by the Mega Project and given to various
         Vendors /ancillary units of the Mega Project within the State limited to
         a maximum of 5% of the total plant and machinery of the Mega Project.




34
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014


                                     ANNEXURE – C
                       Components of an Approved Industrial Park
1.       Criteria for approval
(a)      Minimum area 250 acres in legal possession of applicant
(b)      Should be meant primarily for manufacturing activities
(c)      Should have provision for at least 5 major manufacturing units and 20 SMEs
(d)      Should not have more than 10% wet land or double crop land
(e)      Should not include (for contiguity) more than 5% of Government land
(f)      Should be at least 50 km away from Chennai city limits
2.       Processing area: not less than 65% of total area

         Industrial plots for manufacturing
         Ready built sheds for industrial use
         R&D Centres
         Testing & Certification Centres
         Pathways and Roads

3.       Non-Processing Area: not more than 35% area
      • Business related non-processing area – not more than 20% of total area
        Office space for business support to processing area
        Customs bonded warehouses and ICDs
        Convention Centres
        Business centres – financial services
        Education and Skill training centres related to processing area
        Guest houses for use by businesses in processing area
      • Social Infrastructure – not more than 15% of total area
        Housing
        Schools
        Hospitals
        General purpose education and training institutions
        Entertainment & shopping centres
        Open spaces, roads and pathways



                                                                                      35
                                INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




                                    ANNEXURE – D

                                      ABSTRACT

Industries – Announcement made by the Hon’ble Chief Minister in the Tamil Nadu
Legislative Assembly – Sanction of Special package of incentives to the new
investments from the existing / prospective entrepreneurs setting up industries
in existing as well as new SIPCOT Industrial parks to be developed in 9 Southern
Districts in Tamil Nadu – Orders – Issued.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Industries (MIB.1) Department
G.O.(Ms)No.177                                         Dated : 08.10.2013
                                                        é#a, òu£lhÁ, 22
                                                     ÂUtŸSt® M©L 2044
                                                                Read     :

 1.    G.O. (Ms) No.15, Industries (MIB.1)Department dated 04.02.2008
 2.    G.O. (Ms) No.180, Industries (MIB.1) Department dated 30.09.2008
       From the Principal Secretary/Chairman and Managing Director, SIPCOT,
 3.
       D.O. Letter No.C&MIS/Rule-110 Announcement/ 2013, dated 15.05.2013.
 4.    G.O.(D) No.98, Industries (MIG.1) Department, dated 11.07.2013


ORDER:

       In the G.O. first read above Government have announced formulation of
New Industrial Policy, 2007. As per the Policy, Manufacturing Industries are eligible
to receive incentives mentioned therein only if they make investment of the range
mentioned below:

          Category                                      Range
 Mega Projects                        Rs.350 – Rs.1500 crores

                                      (Chennai,     Kancheepuram        and    Tiruvallur
                                      Districts)


                                      Rs. 250 crores – Rs.1500 crores (other than
                                      Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur)

 Super Mega Projects                      Rs. 1500 crores & above

 Ultra Mega     Projects                  Rs. 4000 crores & above


36
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

2.    In the G.O second read above, orders were issued sanctioning a special
package of incentives for the Industrial development of Southern districts viz.,
Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivagangai, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli,
Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari in Tamil Nadu.

3. During the 2013-2014 Budget Session, the Hon’ble Chief Minister has made
an announcement on 7.5.2013 in the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly inter-alia
that to create industrial growth in the Southern part of Tamil Nadu, an Industrial
Park each in 9 southern districts viz., Pudukottai, Theni, Dindigul,Sivagangai,
Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Thirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari
will be set up and that in order to encourage the new investments from the existing
and prospective entrepreneurs to set up industries in the new / existing SIPCOT
industrial parks, the following special package of incentives will be given:

      1. Land allotment will be made by SIPCOT at 50% subsidized rate.
         The subsidy component will be directly remitted to SIPCOT by
         Government.

      2. 100% exemption from Stamp duty on registration of lease deed

      3. Capital Subsidy will be increased from 1.5 to 2 times

      4. Creation of all infrastructure facilities required for industries

      5. Reduction in the minimum investment required for getting VAT
         based incentives from the present level of Rs.50 crores to Rs.10
         crores.

4.    In the letter 3rd read above, the Principal Secretary/Chairman and Managing
Director, SIPCOT has requested the Government to issue orders to implement the
announcement of the Hon’ble Chief Minister.

5.     Accordingly, in the G.O. 4th read above, Government have issued orders
giving ‘in –principle approval’ for the establishment of industrial parks in the 9
southern districts viz. Sivagangai, Ramanathapuram,Pudukottai, Dindigul, Theni,
Virudhunagar, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari by SIPCOT.


6.     Accordingly, the following Special Package of incentives will be offered to
the new investments from the existing and prospective entrepreneurs, who intend
to set up industries in the existing as well as in the new Industrial Parks to be
developed by SIPCOT in the 9 Districts:

      a. For new manufacturing facilities or expansion projects to be set up in
         the existing (or) new SIPCOT Industrial Parks in these Districts, land
         allotment will be made by SIPCOT at 50% subsidized rate. The 50%
         subsidy component will be borne by the Government and directly
         reimbursed to SIPCOT by the Government.

      b. New manufacturing facilities or expansion projects to be set up in the
         existing (or) new SIPCOT Industrial Parks in these Districts, will be
         eligible for 100% exemption from Stamp duty on lease or sale of land
         meant for industrial use.


                                                                                 37
                                  INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


           c. For new manufacturing facilities or expansion projects to be set up in
              the existing (or) new SIPCOT Industrial Parks in these Districts, the back
              ended Capital Subsidy based on employment provided and investment
              made in eligible fixed assets as per the New Industrial Policy 2007 will be
              increased from 1.5 to 2 times.

           d. New manufacturing facilities or expansion projects set up in existing (or)
              new Industrial Parks of SIPCOT in these Districts with an investment in
              eligible fixed assets of less than Rs. 250 crores in a period of 3 years
              from the date of sanction order, Memorandum of Understanding or any
              other date to be fixed by Government(investment period), will be given a
              soft loan equivalent to the net output VAT+CST paid to the Government,
              in the following manner:


     Sl.     Investment within    Soft loan given would be equal to VAT + CST paid
     No.          3 years                       by the Company in the

            Rs.10 crores      – First 3 years from commencement of its commercial
     1.
            Rs.100 crores       production.
            Rs.100 crores     – First 4 years from commencement of its commercial
     2.
            Rs.200 crores       production.
            Rs.200 crores     - First 5 years from commencement of its commercial
     3.
            Rs.250 crores       production.


           e. Infrastructure facilities required for industries will be created by the
              Government.


7.     New manufacturing facilities or expansion projects to be set up in the existing
(or) new SIPCOT Industrial Parks in these Districts, will also be eligible for other
concessions / incentives like electricity tax exemption, environment protection
infrastructure subsidy, etc as per the orders second cited and the Industrial Policy
in force provided, if they meet the required criteria mentioned therein for availing
those concessions / incentives.

8.    This order issues with the concurrence of Finance department vide its
U.O. No. 54142 / Ind. / 2013, dated 04.10.2013.



                 (BY ORDER OF THE GOVERNOR)




                                                     N.S. PALANIAPPAN
                                        PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT




38
INDUSTRIAL POLICY 2014

To
The Principal Secretary/Chairman and Managing Director,
State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamilnadu Limited,
19-A, Rukmani Lakshmipathy Road, Egmore, Chennai – 8.

The Principal Secretary to Government,
Finance Department, Chennai – 9.
The Principal Secretary to Government,
Commercial Taxes & Registration Department, Chennai – 9.

The District Collectors,
Sivagangai/Ramanathapuram/Pudukottai/Dindigul/Theni/
Virudhunagar/Thoothukudi/Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari

The Director of Information & Public Relations, Chennai-9.

The Executive Vice Chairman,
Guidance Bureau,
19-A, Rukmani Lakshmipathy Road, Egmore, Chennai – 8.

Copy to:
The Special Programme Implementation Department, Chennai-9.
Finance (BPE/Inds.) Department, Chennai-9.
Commercial Taxes & Registration Department, Chennai – 9.
Office of the Hon’ble Chief Minister, Chennai-9.
Office of the Minister (Industries), Chennai-9.
Industries (MIA,MID,MIE,MIF,MIG and Budget) Department, Chennai-9.
SF/SC’s.

                         // FORWARDED BY ORDER //



                                                                 Signed/-
                                                               Section Officer




                                                                                 39
                             INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT - GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU


                                ANNEXURE – E


Direct Employment or Direct Job shall mean all jobs that are performed by
employees who are on the rolls of the respective companies which will include
contract labour engaged in production line. It will however not include casual
labourers. The percentage of contract labourers engaged should not exceed 30%.




                     INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT
                           (Government of Tamil Nadu)
                   Secretariat, Fort St. George, Chennai - 600 009.
     Tel : +91-044-25671383 Fax : +91-044-25670822 E-mail : indsec@tn.gov.in

40
