                            GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




     INFORMATION COMMUNICATION
       TECHNOLOGY POLICY – 2018




              INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT
                     SECRETARIAT, CHENNAI - 600 009.

INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY POLICY - 2018     1
                               Government of Tamil Nadu




          Information Communication
            Technology Policy – 2018




             Information Technology Department
                     Secretariat, Chennai - 600 009.


Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018        1
    inside                       Information Communication
                                 Technology (ICT) Policy


     1. Preamble 06
        1.1.     Competitive advantages of Tamil Nadu
        1.1.1.   Well Established IT & ITeS Infrastructure in Tamil Nadu
        1.1.2.   Educational Excellence:
        1.1.3.   Communication Infrastructure


     2. Vision for IT/ITeS sector 10
        2.1. Vision objectives
        2.2. Vision Targets


     3. Strategies 13

     4. Definitions 15
        4.1. Definition of IT/ITeS Companies
        4.2. Definition of Communication providers


     5. Key Components and Focus
        Areas of the Growth Driven Eco System 17
        5.1. Areas of focus
        5.2. Special Focus on Animation and Gaming
        5.3. Infrastructure
        5.3.1. Information Technology Specific Special Economic Zones
        5.3.2. Transport
        5.3.3. Power 		


     6. Skill Development 20

     7. Incentives 23
        7.1. Standard Fiscal Incentives
        7.2. Special Incentives for MSME units
        7.3. Fiscal Incentives (Structured package)
        7.4. Special Incentives for B &C locations
        7.5. Reimbursement of Stamp Duty
        7.6. Administrative Incentives
        7.7. Quality Certification Financial Assistance for MSMEs
        7.8. Patent Filing Fiscal Incentive
        7.9. Market Development Assistance


2                                                     Government of Tamil Nadu
         8. Relaxation of FSI 28
         9. Open Space Reservation (OSR) 28
             9.1. OSR for SEZ
             9.2. OSR for non SEZs

         10. Maintenance of Roads and Common Utilities 28
         11. Research and Development                  28
         12. Green IT/ITeS 29
         13. Annual and Special Awards 29
         14. Single Window Facilitation 29
         15. Corporate Social Responsibility 29
         16. Mechanism for disbursal of Incentives 29
         17. Tamil Computing and Tamil Virtual Academy (TVA) 30
         18. Connectivity 30
         19. New technologies 30
         20. Conclusion 30
         21. Annexure-I         31
             Quality Certifications

         22. Annexure-II 32
             G.O.(Ms).No.200 Dated: 05.08.2013

         23. Annexure-III 35
             Abbreviations

         24. Annexure-IV 36
             Definitions of Communication Providers

         25. National Policy 37
             National Policy on Information Technology, 2012




Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                3
4   Government of Tamil Nadu
Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018   5
6   Government of Tamil Nadu
                              1. Preamble
                              The Information Technology (IT) and Information
                              Technology enabled Services (ITeS) industry has been one of
                              the key driving forces fuelling India’s economic growth. The
                              industry has transformed India’s image on the global platform.
                              It has employed almost 10 million Indians and has consequently
                              contributed a lot to social transformation in the country.
                                The Government of Tamil Nadu (hereinafter referred to
                              as the Government or the State Government) on its part, has
                              integrated its policy initiatives for the IT/ITeS sector with its
                              own ‘Vision 2023’ in order to provide inclusive and all round
                              development. The incentives have been carefully formulated to
                              promote investment, employment and creation of intellectual
                              capital in the IT/ITeS sectors. The Government has also focused
                              on providing specific incentives towards Startups and MSME
                              entities in the sector.
                                In the above setting, the State Government has proposed to
                              formulate a new Information Communication Technology (ICT)
                              Policy with measures to address the specific needs of various
                              segments within the industry.



                              1.1. Competitive advantages of Tamil Nadu
                              Following are the major advantages of Tamil Nadu:
                                  • Proactive, investor friendly and visionary leadership.
                                  • Stable Government with investor-friendly policies.
                                  • Large pool of English speaking and technically qualified
                                    work force.
                                  • Reliable infrastructure.



Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                           7
                                    Incentivizing
                                     investment,
                                  employment and
                                 intellectual capital
                                       creation

                                                            Integration
    POLICY
                                                          with initiatives
    PILLARS
                                                          of Vision 2023

                                       Special
                                  attention to Start
                                  ups, MSME and
                                   employment of
                                       women




       • Availability of international and domestic bandwidth for communication
         with well-developed telecom network and high tele-density.
       • High rate of urbanization.
       • Establishment of Back offices of several Multi-National Corporations
         (MNCs).
       • Institutional framework to promote industry academia interface
      The following are the other advantages available to the industry in Tamil Nadu:


    1.1.1. Well Established IT & ITeS Infrastructure
    in Tamil Nadu
    There are 38 operational SEZs, out of which 18 SEZs are the IT / ITeS sector
    specific SEZs in the State. Around 246 IT Parks are in the Pipeline with a built-
    up space of 146 million sq. feet in Tamil Nadu.
      IT parks are exclusively Export Oriented Units which focus mainly on Computer
    software and services related to them. Software Technology Parks of India (STPI)



8                                                           Government of Tamil Nadu
has established its parks in Chennai (headquarters), Trichy, Madurai,
Tirunelveli, & Coimbatore.
  On the other hand, SEZ particularly provides companies with many
incentives, which in turn promote Foreign Direct Investment (“FDI”) and
technology into the state. Tamil Nadu houses many IT & ITeS specific
SEZs.


1.1.2. Educational Excellence
Tamil Nadu offers the largest pool of technically qualified professionals
in the country. The annual intake of 573 Engineering Colleges at


                                                                               38
Under Graduate level is 2.6 lakh students. Out of this around 37%
students (~90,000) specialize in IT, Computer Science, Electronics &
Telecommunication. Post Graduate courses like MCA (Master of Computer
Applications) specially designed to suit the needs of IT-BPO industry have     operational SEZs,
an intake of around 18,000 students. ICT Academy of Tamil Nadu has             out of which
been established on PPP basis for furthering Industry-Academia interface


1.1.3. Communication Infrastructure                                            18
                                                                               SEZs are the
Tamil Nadu has an excellent OFC network and availability of reliable           IT / ITeS sector
large bandwidth. With 3 Submarine Cables, Chennai has one of the largest
                                                                               specific SEZs in
bandwidth connected among Indian cities. One of these submarine cable
has the largest bandwidth of 8.4 terabit per second (tbps). This cable links   the State.


                                                                               246
Chennai with Singapore. The Cable consists of 8 fibre pairs using DWDM
Multiplexing with full capacity of 8.4 tbps when all 105 wavelengths are
used. This cable connects with C2C Cable network, SEA-ME-WE 3 and
Asia Pacific Cable Network. South East Asia–Middle East–Western Europe         IT Parks are in the
4 (SEA-ME-WE 4) is an optical fibre submarine communications cable             Pipeline with a
system that carries telecommunications between Singapore, Malaysia,            built-up space of
Thailand, Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, United Arab Emirates,


                                                                               146
Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Egypt, Italy, Tunisia, Algeria and France. This cable
also has a landing point in Chennai. The third submarine cable that has
a landing point in Chennai is an India-Singapore Cable System. The
cable with 5.12 terabit per second has significantly increased the existing    million sq. feet in
bandwidth capacity into India, which is the second fastest growing             Tamil Nadu.
communications route in the world. All the three Submarine Cables
offer a combined bandwidth of over 14.8 tbps. Reliable availability of
bandwidth has ensured emergence of Chennai as a Data Centre hub.
  The Government will provide necessary co-ordination and ground work
to improve tele-density and Broadband penetration and ensure 100%
reliable and efficient telecom network throughout the State including
through the Tamil Nadu State Wide Area Network (TNSWAN), National
Knowledge Network (NKN), BharatNet and TamilNet Projects. The
Government of Tamil Nadu has set up a State Data Centre and Disaster
Recovery Centre, Cloud computing facilities, Common Service Centres
etc. for enhancing citizen access to online Government services.


Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                            9
10   Government of Tamil Nadu
                                     2. Vision for
                                     IT/ITeS sector
                                     2.1. Vision objectives
                                     The Government of Tamil Nadu as part of its Vision
                                     2023 has envisioned the following for development of
                                     IT/ITeS sector in the state.

                                        • Availability     of   a    dynamic     information
                                          architecture
                                        • Availability of Skilled workforce
                                        • Knowledge Ecosystem comprising research
                                          organisations, universities, think tanks, and
                                          business organisations that focus on enhancing
                                          the knowledge base
                                        • An economic and institutional regime
                                          that incentivises knowledge creation and
                                          entrepreneurship



                                     2.2. Vision Targets
                                     The following have been identified as the targets for IT/
                                     ITeS sector in Tamil Nadu:
                                        • To make Tamil Nadu the number one State in the
                                          sector in India.
                                        • To make Tamil Nadu the destination of choice
                                          for foreign investors in the IT/ITeS sector



Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                          11
• To attract incremental direct
  investment from foreign and
  domestic investors across the
  state
• To create large scale employment
  opportunities.
• To ensure world       class   skill
  availability.
• To provide IT/ITeS companies
  with the best business climate.
• To make Tamil Nadu as a cost
  effective      destination   with
  marginal operating cost, low cost
  of living and safe and secured
  social life for the development of
  IT/ITeS.
• To encourage IT/ITeS for masses,
  especially for youth of the state.
• To make available world class
  infrastructure with emphasis on
  promotion of Green IT & ITeS.
• To enhance the quality of life of
  citizens through IT & ITeS.
• To foster mass scale adoption of
  IT & ITeS for achieving inclusive
  growth.
• To encourage new entrepreneurs
  to establish Warehouse for Start-
  ups
• To facilitate growth and usage of
  Tamil Computing
• To achieve rapid development of
  IT & ITeS sector in the southern
  districts of Tamil Nadu.




12                                      Government of Tamil Nadu
                                             3. Strategies
                                              In order to promote Tamil Nadu as an
                                              ideal investment destination, the following
                                              strategies are planned:-
                                                 • Provide industry-grade skill up-
                                                   gradation and training to the students
                                                   to suit the requirements of industry and
                                                   for obtaining gainful employment.
                                                 • Support Research & Development,
                                                   Innovation and Entrepreneurship in IT/
                                                   ITeS Sector
                                                 • Widen the scope of IT base by
                                                   encouraging new verticals such
                                                   as Animation, Gaming & Digital
                                                   Entertainment, IT Products & Services
                                                   in    Engineering,   Retail,  Health
                                                   Management, etc.
                                                 • Encourage innovative entrepreneurs,
                                                   Small & Medium Enterprises (SMEs),
                                                   Women and socially challenged
                                                   sections, etc., of the society, through
                                                   special incentives and facilitation.
                                                   Create     appropriate     institutional
                                                   measures and supportive technology
                                                   frameworks for Tamil Computing
                                                   including standards and specifications
                                                 • To support early stage Technology
                                                   Startups in Chennai with high quality
                                                   physical working infrastructures and
                                                   ancillary support with cost advantage.
                                                 The Government envisions setting up
                                              of hubs for Information Technology (IT)
                                              services like Software development and
                                              Product development and IT enabled Services
                                              (ITeS) like Business Process Outsourcing
                                              and Knowledge Process Outsourcing. The
                                              endeavor is to make Tamil Nadu the back-
                                              office capital of the world by attracting large
                                              scale information technology based back
                                              offices for knowledge intensive businesses.




Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                        13
14   Government of Tamil Nadu
                                         4. Definitions
                                         4.1. Definition of IT/ITeS
                                         Companies
                                         IT/ITeS companies will include IT Services (ITS), IT
                                         enabled Services (ITeS), Cloud Computing Services,
                                         Remote Infrastructure Management (RIM), and
                                         Software Industries, IT maintenance and servicing
                                         units and Hardware units. IT Services are broadly
                                         defined as Systems Integration, Processing Services,
                                         Information Services (IS) outsourcing, Packaged
                                         Software support and installation, Hardware support
                                         and installation.
                                           IT enabled Services are human intensive services
                                         that are delivered over telecom networks or the
                                         internet for a range of business segments. IT/ITeS
                                         as a core business or the IT/ITeS component of the
                                         business alone shall be included within the scope of
                                         this Policy.
                                            1. IT/ITeS component of Medical Transcription
                                            2. IT/ITeS component       of   Legal   Database
                                               processing
                                            3. Digital content development / animation
                                            4. Digital technology component of media and
                                               entertainment industry
                                            5. IT/ITeS component of Remote Maintenance
                                               activity
                                            6. Back office operations - Accounts/Financial
                                               services
                                            7. Knowledge Process Outsourcing
                                            8. Data Processing
                                            9. Call Centres

Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                        15
        10. Engineering and Design element of IT/ITeS infrastructure
        11. Geographic Information Services
        12. IT/ITeS component of Human Resources Services
        13. Insurance Claim Processing
        14. Payroll Processing
        15. Revenue Accounting
        16. IT/ITeS Support Centres
        17. Website Services
        18. Business Process Outsourcing ( BPO)
        19. Animation (a movie using a series of drawings, computer
            graphics, or photographs of two and three dimensional
            objects that are recorded in analog or digital media limited
            to the IT/ITeS component)
        20. Visual Effects (computer generated imagery using user
            friendly animation and compositing software limited to
            the IT/ITeS component)
        21. Gaming (A game involves human interaction with a user
            interface to generate visual feedback on a video device
            using electronic medium limited to the IT/ITeS component)
        22. Digital Comics (visual medium used to express ideas via
            images, often combined with text or visual information
            limited to the IT/ITeS component)
        23. Data Centre
        24. Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud (SMAC)
        25. IT/ITeS component of E-Commerce
        26. Digital Content creation
        27. E-Learning and Massive Open Online Course Content
            (MOOC)
        28. Digital Management and Technology
        29. Tamil Computing



     4.2. Definition of Communication providers
     Communication Providers include Class A, Class B and Class
     C - Internet Service Providers, Right of Way Memorandum of
     Understanding (MOU) holders, Basic Service Providers and
     Value added service providers like the Common Service Centres
     operators in the State.




16                                            Government of Tamil Nadu
              5. Key Components
              and Focus Areas of
              the Growth Driven
              Eco System
              5.1. Areas of focus
              In the future, to improve IT/ITeS Industries in Tamil Nadu, ELCOT and other
              Agencies will give more thrust in the following fields/areas in addition to
              existing business operations:-
                 • Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud (SMAC)
                 • E-Commerce portal for Government Departments
                 • e-Learning
                 • Massive Open Online Course content (MOOC)
                 • Content Creation
                 • Digital Management and Technology
                 • Business Intelligence Software and Analytics




                        E-Commerce         e-Learning         MOOC             Content
         SMAC              Portal                                              Creation




         Digital           Business          Data                               Tamil
       Management        Intelligence     Warehousing         ESDM
                                                                              Computing


Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                        17
                         • Data warehousing
                         • ESDM (Electronics System Design and Manufacturing)
                           Training
                         • Tamil Computing


                      5.2. Special Focus on Animation and Gaming
                      The Government of Tamil Nadu will actively encourage Animation
                      and Gaming Industry in the state. The incentives for investment in
                      the animation and gaming space will be governed as per this Policy.
                         To attract and retain IT and ITeS investments in the State,
                      necessary thrust will be given by the Government in the areas such
                      as IT specific SEZs, power, telecom, legal including anti-piracy,
                      data security mechanisms, IP rights, Foreign ownership rights and
                      transportation infrastructure. Specific initiatives have been briefly
                      described as under.



                      5.3. Infrastructure
Companies
                      The Government in Information Technology Department has
desiring to set       accorded administrative sanction and approval for establishing
up units in the       Warehouse for Startups at Chennai and Coimbatore and Startup
state can avail       Warehouse Board. Infrastructure facilities required for SMAC and
themselves of the     Data Centers are being provided by the Government. It has also set
facilities provided   up rural BPOs and Common Service Centres.
in ELCOSEZs.            In order to facilitate overall infrastructure development,
The possibility       the Government has enacted the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure
                      Development Act (TNIDA) and has also constituted the
of setting up
                      Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB). The
ELCOSEZs in new       Government has also identified priority infrastructure projects
locations will be     across sectors and many of them are under implementation
explored based
on demand and
viability.
                      5.3.1. Information Technology Specific Special
                      Economic Zones
                      In order to make development more inclusive, Tier II cities such as
                      Coimbatore, Madurai, Trichy, Tirunelveli, Hosur and Salem have
                      been promoted as IT investment destinations apart from the Chennai
                      region. To facilitate this, ELCOT has established ELCOSEZs (IT
                      Specific Special Economic Zones) in the following eight locations:
                         • Chennai - Sholinganallur
                         • Coimbatore - Vilankurichi
                         • Madurai -Ilandhaikulam
                         • Madurai - Vadapalanji-Kinnimangalam
                         • Trichy - Navalpattu

18                                                            Government of Tamil Nadu




        Map
       • Tirunelveli - Gangaikondan
       • Salem - Jagirammapalayam
       • Hosur - Viswanathapuram

      ELCOT       has   created    necessary     basic
    infrastructural facilities in all the above
    ELCOSEZs. Companies desiring to set up units
    in the state can avail themselves of the facilities
    provided in these ELCOSEZs. The possibility of
    setting up ELCOSEZs in new locations will be
    explored based on demand and viability.


    5.3.2. Transport
    Tamil Nadu has well connected rail and road
    system. The Government will focus on developing
    Tier-II & Tier-III cities of Tamil Nadu as well as
    IT hubs around Chennai, by developing required
    infrastructure. Government is focused on further
    improving transport infrastructure in Tier II and
    III Cities to cater to the needs of Sector and spur
    investments in the state.
      Tamil Nadu has also the unique distinction of
    being home to four International Airports


    5.3.3. Power
    The Government of Tamil Nadu / TANGEDCO will
    give priority to good quality and uninterrupted
    power supply to IT/ITeS Companies located
    throughout the State of Tamil Nadu. Dedicated
    feeders will be provided for units requiring more
    than 10 MVA if they pay the entire cost. The
    electricity supply will be extended as per the
    norms fixed by TNERC. Industries that seek a
    second feeder from an independent source will
    be provided the same on payment of the feeder
    infrastructure cost. The Power tariff applicability
    for IT and ITES units shall be as per notification
    issued by Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory
    Commission (TNERC).
       The Government of Tamil Nadu will fast-
    track power projects and endeavour to provide
    uninterrupted power supply to IT/ITeS units.

                   IT Specific Special Economic Zones



Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018        19
20   Government of Tamil Nadu
               6. Skill Development
                Skill Development is an important focus area of the Government. Assistance for
                skill enhancement is being provided as per the Tamil Nadu Rural BPO Policy.
                The Government is committed to skill development through the following
                initiatives:
                   • The Government has implemented the Skill Development Mission with
                     strong industry linkages for Training and Skill Development. Emphasis
                     will be given to ensure that students going to vocational streams can
                     eventually link up with the academic stream and realize their aspiration
                     for obtaining technical degrees through “Learn While You Work”
                     programmes.
                   • Government of Tamil Nadu has already launched the scheme for Free
                     distribution of Laptop Computers to the +2 School students studying
                     in Government and Government aided schools and students studying
                     in Government and Government aided colleges to facilitate their
                     acquisition of better computer skills. This will make them ready to meet
                     the expectations of IT/ITeS sector.
                   • The Government of Tamil Nadu has instituted the ICT Academy of
                     Tamil Nadu (ICTACT). This is a joint initiative of Government of India,
                     Government of Tamil Nadu and IT Industry. Its prime focus is to improve
                     the quality of students graduating from various institutions in the State,
                     to make them industry ready and immediately employable in the ICT
                     industry.
                      The Government will also provide skill development and upgradation in
                      the following areas to meet the expectations of the IT & ITeS sector:
                   • The Government will take necessary efforts to impart employability
                     skills to address the challenges of the IT/ITeS industry.
                   • The Government will encourage industries to collaborate with colleges
                     in creating centers of excellence in new technologies and research.
                   • Creation of Skilled workforce with a knowledge of foreign languages will
                     be encouraged to enable them to compete in the international arena
                   • The National Knowledge Network (NKN) which is a National Level High
                     speed Network for connecting academic institutions across India and
                     also for linking with the global scientific community, will be leveraged
                     for industry - academia interface.




Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                          21
22   Government of Tamil Nadu
                      7. Incentives
                      In order to promote employment throughout the State and for the benefit
                      of the rural students, the Government has decided to extend higher levels
                      of incentives and subsidies to the companies which are ready to invest
                      in Tier II and Tier III cities such as Coimbatore, Madurai, Trichy, Salem,
                      Tirunelveli and Hosur as well as in rural locations.


                      7.1. Standard Fiscal Incentives
                      All IT/ITeS industries in Tamil Nadu (those who otherwise do not qualify
                      for the structured package as defined in this Policy) will be eligible for
                      the following standard incentives:
                      i. Capital Subsidy and Electricity Tax Exemptions: Irrespective of the
                         location of the project, new or expansion manufacturing units will be
                         given a back ended capital subsidy and electricity tax exemption on
                         power purchased from the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution
                         Corporation Ltd. (TANGEDCO) or generated and consumed from
                         captive sources based on employment and investment in fixed assets/
                         eligible assets as the case may be, made within the investment period
                         as detailed below:

                            Investment in          Direct    Capital      Electricity tax
                             fixed assets /    employment subsidy exemption (in number
                             eligible fixed    (in numbers) (` crore) of years) from date of
                            assets (` crore)                          commercial operation
                                 5-50              500         0.30            2 years
                               50 - 100        500 – 1000      0.60            3 Years
                               100 - 200       1000 – 2000     1.00            4 Years
                               200 - 500       2000 - 4000     1.50            5 Years

                      ii. The proof of employment shall be provided in the form of EPF
                          transactions or TDS deductions and payments. The subsidy shall be
                          paid at the end of 3 years in A&B locations and 4 years in C location
                          subject to satisfaction of conditions mentioned in the table above.
                          (Please refer to 7.3 for classifications)
                      iii. New or expansion IT/ITeS industries located in ELCOT promoted
                           SEZs/IT Parks in A districts will be provided an additional capital


Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                          23
        subsidy of 50% over and above the eligible limit, enumerated in
        the table above.
     iv. New or expansion IT/ITeS industries located in B & C districts
         will be provided an additional capital subsidy of 10% and 25%
         respectively over and above the eligible limit, enumerated in the
         table above.


     7.2. Special Incentives for MSME units
     Financial Assistance will be provided to new and expansion MSME
     units in B and C locations subject to the following conditions:
        • Units attaining a level of at least 50 employees within 3 years
          alone shall be eligible for this incentive
        • Training would be provided free of cost through Tamil Nadu
          Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) as per National
          Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) Norms (which
          include transport subsidy) to prospective employees who
          have requisite qualifications and need skill up-gradation.
       The above mentioned assistance would be capped at 100
     employees per year per unit for a maximum of 3 years.
        • Startups and MSMEs will be provided a subsidy of 10% on
          lease rentals subject to a maximum of `2 lakhs per annum
          for a period not exceeding three years, on built up office
          space ranging from 1000 sq.ft to 5000 sq.ft leased by these
          units in Government promoted IT SEZs.
        • The Government would facilitate tie up with reputed Business
          Analyst Firms to evaluate the strengths of MSMEs, so that
          MSMEs can market themselves in international markets.
        • Government would support linkages of smaller IT/ITeS
          companies with bigger firms.


     7.3. Fiscal Incentives (Structured package)
     a) For the purpose of administering this Structured package of
        incentives based on mandatory investment and employment
        criteria mentioned in this policy, the districts have been
        classified as under:

          Locations    Description – Districts classification

              A        Chennai, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram

              B        Other than A & C (20 Districts)

              C        Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivagangai,
                       Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli,
                       Thookthukudi and Kanniyakumari.


24                                           Government of Tamil Nadu
b) “Mega Project” for the purpose of this incentive means an IT/ITeS
   project, new or expansion, with the following investment ranges
   and employment criteria for the above locations as defined in
   the table below.

               Criteria                         Location
                                        A          B           C
    Investment range (` crore)       500 and    350 and     200 and
                                      above      above       above
    Employment (Minimum               6,000      4,000       2,000
    number of employees)
    Timeline within which target        3           3          4
    is to be achieved (years)

c) The IT/ITeS companies which make the investment for own use
    alone will be eligible for the incentives and subsidies.
d) The structured package of incentives would be extended to
   industries on a case to case basis
e) The investment period will be reckoned from the date of executing
    an MoU with the Government or any other date, as may be
    defined by the Government.
f) IT/ITeS industries in existence in Tamil Nadu for over 10 years
    will be given suitable extra benefits for expansion projects over
    and above the normal structured package of incentives, subject
    to investing the minimum level of investment mentioned above.
g) Employment criteria is a mandatory condition to claim fiscal
   inventive. The proof of employment shall be provided in the
   form of EPF transactions or TDS deductions and payments. The
   subsidy shall be paid at the end of 3 or 4 years.
  The clause “c” to “g” are general in nature and applicable to all
the three categories of districts uniformly.


7.4. Special Incentives for B &C locations
IT/ITeS units coming up in B and C locations will be given special
incentives for setting up Sewerage Treatment Plant and Reverse
Osmosis (RO) Plant.


7.5. Reimbursement of Stamp Duty
• 50% reimbursement of stamp duty and registration fee will be
  given on transaction of land/building for IT/ITeS in C districts
  for first transaction of a particular land/building for the purposes
  of development of IT/ITeS industrial unit(s) considered in
  this policy. No reimbursement would be given for subsequent
  transactions for the same land/building. This will be conditional
  to the concerned entity putting up the facilities to commence the

Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                       25
        operations within three years from the date of the transaction.
        The certification in this regard will be undertaken by ELCOT.
        Category A,B and C locations are as defined as in clause 7.3 of
        this Policy.
     • The rules for administration of this exemption will be notified
       subsequently


     7.6. Administrative Incentives
     • IT/ITeS companies are exempted from the provisions of Chapter
       II and III of the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments Act, 1947.
     • IT/ITeS companies are exempted from the provisions of Section
       5 (2) (a) (i) and (ii) of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishment
       (National and Festival Holidays) Act, 1958.
     • IT/ITeS companies will be permitted to self-certify that they are
       maintaining the registers and forms as contemplated under
         i.    Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishment Rules, 1947
         ii.   Tamil Nadu Payment of Gratuity Rules, 1972
         iii. Tamil Nadu Maternity Benefits Rules, 1964
         iv.   Tamil Nadu Contract Labour Rules, 1975
         v.    Tamil Nadu Minimum Wages Rules, 1953
         vi. 	Contract Labour Act, 1970
         vii. Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972
         viii. Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishment (National and
               Festival) Holidays Act, 1958.
         ix. Tamil Nadu Industrial Establishments (National and
             Festival) Holidays Rules, 1959
         x.    Tamil Nadu Payment of Wages Rules, 1937
         xi. 	Employment Exchange Act, 1959
         xii. 	Equal Remuneration Act, 1976
         xiii. The Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923
         xiv. 	Employees’ Provident Fund & Miscellaneous Provisions
               Act, 1952
        Flexibility in labour laws shall be adopted without compromising
     labour welfare, subject to applicable labour laws and within the
     parameters of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act,
     1946 (Central Act 20 of 1946). The flexibility in working hours,
     working in three shifts and employment in night shifts may be
     allowed for women employees, provided; all necessary security
     arrangement, facilities of rest room and safe transportations are
     arranged; the employers have to ensure that night shift work may
     be carried out under the supervision of women supervisors and
     ensure the presence of women security officers. The employers may
     also constitute internal complaints committee as per the Sexual
     Harassment of Women at Work place Act, 2013.

26                                            Government of Tamil Nadu
  This self-certification by the IT/ITeS companies will be regarded
as sufficient compliance with the requirements of the different
Acts and the Rules made there under regarding the maintenance of
registers and filing of the returns.
  E-filing of returns will be implemented progressively after all the
offices of the concerned Inspectors are computerized for receiving
such returns to make the process efficient, effective, transparent
and citizen- friendly.
  Government will also take necessary action for introduction of
Common Annual Returns in place of multiple returns and reduction
in the number of registers maintained at present.
   The Government will evolve appropriate mechanisms for ensuring
the job security of IT Professionals at the same time keeping in
mind the interests of the IT industry and industry practice in other
States. The interventions will include encouraging movement away
from services to product based industries, re-skilling of middle
level employees, creating eco-systems for Start-ups and Angel
Investments and so on.


7.7. Quality Certification Financial
Assistance for MSMEs
MSMEs shall be reimbursed 50% of the costs towards certification
subject to a maximum of ` 5 lakh for certifications listed in Annexure
I. This incentive can be availed only once.


7.8. Patent Filing Fiscal Incentive
MSMEs shall be reimbursed 50% of the statutory fees for filing
of patents. The reimbursement amount will be limited to `3 lakh
for domestic patent and ` 5 lakh for international patent. This
incentive can be availed up to 5 times in a period of 5 years. The
headquarters of the IT/ITeS unit must be located in Tamil Nadu to
avail this benefit.


7.9. Market Development Assistance
The state shall strive to promote IT sector by specialized exhibitions,
stalls and seminars in state sponsored events and encourage
marketing to the best possible extent.




Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                        27
     8. Relaxation of FSI
     Relaxation of FSI (Floor Space Index) to a maximum extent of 100% will
     be given in designated IT - ITeS Parks all over the State. The certification
     in this regard will be undertaken by ELCOT.



     9. Open Space Reservation (OSR)
     9.1. OSR for SEZ
     The provisions pertaining to OSR for SEZ’s shall be as per the provisions
     of the G.O. (Ms).No. 200, Housing and Urban Development [UD4(1)]
     Department, dated 05.08.2013 included in the Annexure II to this Policy.


     9.2. OSR for non SEZs
     The request of the IT/ITeS companies for maintaining the Open space
     will be considered as per the Open Space Reservation (OSR) Rules under
     the Development Regulations of the Chennai Metropolitan Development
     Authority favorably. A similar provision will also be made in respect of
     areas falling outside the CMDA.



     10. Maintenance of Roads and
     Common Utilities
     The Government will adopt an eco-system development approach
     and attempt to develop the physical infrastructure required for the
     development of IT/ITeS industry. In case of SEZ or IT Parks, the
     developer shall be responsible for proper maintenance of internal roads,
     water distribution infrastructure, street lighting, drainage facilities,
     landscaping, and Green area, etc. The developers will be exempted from
     transferring the same to the Local bodies. But link roads to public roads
     should be handed over to Local Bodies. However, property tax shall be
     payable to Local bodies.



     11. Research and Development
     The Government will foster an environment that is conducive to IT
     Innovation and Research by instituting IT Innovation Awards, making
     space available in ELCOT promoted ELCOSEZ for innovators and
     researchers, creating a fund that can support and help incubate innovators
     etc. The Government of Tamil Nadu will explore the feasibility of
     setting up of research parks in the State. The Government will facilitate
     interaction between educational institutions and industries to set up
     research labs in a Public Private Partnership (PPP) model.



28                                                  Government of Tamil Nadu
12. Green IT/ITeS
In order to ensure growth of the IT/ITeS Sector in an environmental friendly,
sustainable and responsible manner, the Government will take steps to
facilitate Green IT Parks as well as the stand alone units in such parks to get
clearance relating to environment and other benefits. The Government will
also institute Awards for promoting Green IT industry.



13. Annual and Special Awards
The Government will institute / select Annual Awards for excellence in
export performance to the best IT/ITeS industry in order to encourage IT/ITeS
companies to achieve maximum export from the State of Tamil Nadu.
  Special awards will be given to IT/ITeS units which give at least 4%
employment opportunities to the differently abled persons.



14. Single Window Facilitation
To avoid procedural delays for creation of IT infrastructure, Single
window facilitation will be available for all IT/ITeS industries
through Tamil Nadu Industrial Guidance and Export Promotion
Bureau for coordination with various Agencies such as Chennai
Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), Directorate of
Town and Country Planning (DTCP), Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue
Services (TNF&RS), Tamil Nadu Police, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board,
Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) and
Airport Authority of India (AAI) to get the clearances from them.



15. Corporate Social Responsibility
Government recognizes that companies assisted through a structured package
of assistances have a responsibility to the society and community around
their IT / ITeS facilities. Investing IT/ITeS companies in Tamil Nadu will be
encouraged to participate in community and social development activities.
Suitable provisions will be incorporated in the Memoranda of Understanding
signed with such companies by following the provisions indicated in the
Companies Act 2013 pertaining to Corporate Social Responsibility.



16. Mechanism for disbursal of Incentives
A suitable mechanism that ensures speed and transparency for disbursal of
incentives will be put in place. ELCOT is mandated to act as the implementation
agency for the various incentives listed out in this policy. A committee will
be constituted for this purpose to evaluate the proposals. Detailed guidelines
governing this will be issued separately.



Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                29
 17. Tamil Computing and
 Tamil Virtual Academy (TVA)
 TVA will coordinate Tamil Computing related sectors with the following aims:
     • To create necessary standard and architecture for Tamil Computing.
     • To Develop Tamil Software for Government applications in the areas
       of Education, Commerce, Technology etc., and Maintenance and up
       gradation of software for Web server
     • To create Incubation facilities for young entrepreneurs
     • To facilitate online collaboration and dissemination in respect of Tamil language,
       culture and heritage.



 18. Connectivity
     • The Government of Tamil Nadu will facilitate single window clearance of all Right
       of Way applications for facilitating faster roll-out of connectivity in the State.
     • The Government of Tamil Nadu will facilitate for installation of Base Transceiver
       Station (BTS) Towers and Exchanges by the Communication Service Providers.



 19. New Technologies
 Government will encourage innovation and research in emerging technologies and also
 create an eco-system for these technologies to thrive. The Government will encourage
 IT/ITeS Companies in Tamil Nadu to take all steps to enhance awareness and impart
 training to their employees to upgrade the employability skills of their employees in the
 emerging technologies like:
     • Artificial Intelligence, Machine learning and Robotics
     • 3D Printing
     • IT application in different sectors
        • Banking Financial Service Industries (BFSI)(FinTech)
        • Health and medicine (MedTech)
        • Agriculture ( AgriTech)
        • Online Education and training (Edutech) etc.
     • Internet of Things (IoT)
     • Block Chain Technology
     • Data analytics



 20. Conclusion
 The Policy endeavors to strengthen the position of Tamil Nadu in the IT/ITeS space and
 help in becoming the most preferred investment destination in the country. n



30                                                                   Government of Tamil Nadu
                                Annexure – I



  The following certifications to be eligible to avail reimbursement incentive


                              Quality Certifications
   ISI                 Provided by BSI certifying conformity with Indian standards

   ISO 9000            Quality Management Systems standard related to quality of product

   ISO 27001           Standard pertaining security of information assets of organizations

   CMM                 Framework for assessing and improving operational processes’
   (level 2 upwards)   effectiveness.

   P-CMM               Framework for assessing and improving organization’s human
                       capabilities.

   BS                  Pertaining Information Security Management System

   COPC                Performance linked standard certification in call centre industry.

   eSCM                Performance linked standard certification in ITeS industry

   CCC & CE            Certification pertaining conformity with Chinese and European
                       standards respectively.




Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                           31
                              Annexure – II

G.O.(Ms) No.200, Housing and Urban Development (UD4(1)
             Department, Dated 05.08.2013




                                       ABSTRACT
Urban Development – Development of Special Economic Zone (SEZ) - Special Economic Zone
Act, 2005 – Handing over of Open Space Reservation (OSR) Area and Roads by Special Economic
Zone Developers Exemption from relevant Development Regulations and Development Control
Regulations Notifications - Issued.
                    Housing and Urban Development [UD4(1)] Department
G.O.(Ms).No.200                                                              Dated: 05.08.2013




Read:
  1. G.O.(Ms). No.192, Housing and Urban Development Department, dated 08.09.2010.
  2. G.O.(Ms.) No.23, Housing and Urban Development Department, dated 24.01.2012.
  3. From the Additional Secretary, Government of India, Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
      Department of Commerce letter No.D12/32/2009-SEZ, dated 30.04.2012.

ORDER:

The Government of Tamil Nadu have given their consent for functioning of Special Economic
Zones in the State under the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) Act 2005. As per the rules and
procedures in force in the State, for according approval to any layout exceeding 3000 sq.m, in
Chennai Metropolitan Area and 2500 sq.m. in Commissioner of Town and Country Planning areas,
10% of land area has to be reserved as Open Space Reservation (OSR) area and all the internal
roads in the layout have to be gifted to local body through a gift deed.

2.	As the SEZ developers represented for maintenance of OSR area and roads by themselves,
   orders were issued in Government Order first read above that Open Space Reservation area
   and roads shall be handed over to respective local bodies by SEZ Developers and local bodies
   in turn shall give the same back on lease to respective SEZ developers for maintenance. The
   above Government Order was rendered impracticable as it contravenes SEZ Act 2005.




32                                                                  Government of Tamil Nadu
3.	Later, the Government vide Government Order second read above issued orders requiring 10%
   of land within SEZs to be handed over to respective local bodies by SEZ developers as Open
   Space Reservation land through a registered lease deed for a period of 99 years.

4. 	Now, in the letter third read above, the Additional Secretary to Government of India, Ministry
    of Commerce & Industry, Department of Commerce has stated that this order is in conflict with
    certain explicit provisions of the SEZ Act, 2005 and SEZ Rules 2006 under which a developer
    is permitted only to lease SEZ land either to a co-developer or a unit. The local body, being
    neither a co-developer nor a unit of an SEZ, is not permitted to be a lessee of the SEZ land.

	Further, SEZs are custom bounded areas and, therefore handing over to any person, who is not
  a co-developer or unit or allowing access to persons not otherwise authorised to be in SEZ, is
  not permitted under the SEZ Act / Rules. Moreover, Section 51 of the SEZ Act provides that
  the provisions of the SEZ Act will have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith
  contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by
  virtue of any law other than the SEZ Act and had therefore requested to keep the Government
  Order 2nd cited in abeyance.

5. The Government after careful consideration of the request of the Additional Secretary, Ministry
    of Commerce and Industry mentioned in para 4 above, have decided to accept the above
    request. Accordingly, in supersession of orders issued earlier vide Government Order second
    read above the Government lay down the following stipulations in respect of handing over of
    OSR area and roads in SEZs in Tamil Nadu.
   a. In respect of existing SEZ, the OSR area and internal roads need not be handed over to the
      local body, but the same would be maintained by the SEZ developer only as the OSR area
      or road without any kind of development in the OSR land except as a green space (park).
   b. The space covered under OSR would be entered in the caution register and the planning
      authority should never issue development permission in this space.
   c. SEZ developer and the Development Commissioner of SEZ would give separate under-
      takings to maintain the OSR land and internal roads during the operation of the SEZ and
      handover the OSR area and internal roads to the local body in case the SEZ is denotified.
   d. In respect of future SEZs, the developer should handover 10% of the total area as OSR area in
      a place abutting a public road with a minimum of 10m width and it should not be included
      in the SEZ notified area, and the developer should handover a road in the periphery of the
      SEZ to provide access to rear lands. This road should be handed over to local body. In respect
      of internal roads, the procedure as proposed for existing SEZ would apply i.e., maintenance
      and ownership will be with SEZ developer but with separate undertakings signed by the SEZ
      developer and by the Development Commissioner, SEZ to hand over the same to the local
      body in case the SEZ is denotified.

6. The Director of Town and Country Planning and the Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan
   Development Authority are directed to pursue action accordingly.

7. The Works Manager,  Government Central Press, Chennai - 600 079 is directed to publish the
   appended Notification in the next issue of Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and send   ten
   copies  of the Gazette notification to Government.

                                (BY ORDER OF THE GOVERNOR)

                                                             THANGA KALIYAPERUMAL
                                                              SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT

Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                              33
                                         APPENDIX
                                       NOTIFICATION
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 113 of Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning
Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act 35 of 1972), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby exempts the SEZ
Developers from Regulation 29 (7) (a) of Development Regulations of Master Plan 2026 for
Chennai Metropolitan Area and Regulation 9 (3) (ii) of Development Control Rules of Master Plan
of other areas regarding handing over of Open Space Reservation and Roads, in supersession of
earlier notification issued vide in Notification No.II(2)/HOU/110/2012 in Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, No.6, Part-II, Section 2, dated 15th February 2012, subject to the following conditions:-

     a. In respect of existing SEZ, the OSR area and internal roads need not be handed over to the
        local body, but the same would be maintained by the SEZ developer only as the Open Space
        Reservation area or road without any kind of development in the Open Space Reservation
        land except as a green space (park).

     b. The space covered under Open Space Reservation would be entered in the caution register
        and the planning authority should never issue development permission in this space.

     c. SEZ developer and the Development Commissioner of SEZ would give separate undertakings
        to maintain the Open Space Reservation land and internal roads during the operation of the
        SEZ and handover the Open Space Reservation area and internal roads to the local body in
        case the SEZ is denotified.

     d. In respect of future SEZs, the developer should handover 10% of the total area as Open
        Space Reservation area in a place abutting a public road with a minimum of 10m width
        and it should not be included in the SEZ notified area, and the developer should handover
        a road in the periphery of the SEZ to provide access to rear lands. This road should be
        handed over to local body.

In respect of internal roads, the procedure as proposed for existing SEZ would apply i.e.,
maintenance and ownership will be with SEZ developer but with separate undertakings signed
by the SEZ developer and by the Development Commissioner, SEZ to hand over the same to the
local body in case the SEZ is denotified.




                                                            THANGA KALIYAPERUMAL,
                                                              SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT




34                                                                     Government of Tamil Nadu
                                  Annexure – III


Abbreviations:
1. AAI - Airport Authority of India
2. BPO - Business Process Outsourcing
3. BTS - Base Transceiver Station
4. BFSI - Banking Financial Service Industries
5. BSI - British Standards Institution
6. CMM - Capability Maturity Model
7. CMDA - Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority
8. CMWSSB - Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
9. COPC - Customer Operations Performance Centre
10. DTCP - Directorate of Town and Country Planning
11. DWDM - Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing
12. EPF - Employees Provident Fund
13. ESDM - Electronics System Design and Manufacturing
14. FDI - Foreign Direct Investment
15. ICT - Information Communication Technology
16. ICTACT - ICT Academy of Tamil Nadu
17. IoT - Internet of Things
18. ISI - Indian Standards Institute
19. ISO - International Organization for Standardization
20. IT - Information Technology
21. ITeS - Information Technology enabled Services
22. MVA - Mega Volt Amp
23. MCA - Master of Computer Applications
24. MNCs - Multi-National Corporations
25. MOOC - Massive Open Online Course
26. MOU - Memorandum of Understanding
27. MSME - Micro , Small and Medium Enterprises Department
28. NKN - National Knowledge Network
29. NOFN - National Optical Fibre Network
30. NSDC - National Skill Development Corporation
31. OFC – Optical Fiber Cable


Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                 35
  32. OSR - Open Space Reservation
  33. PPP - Public-Private Partnership
  34. RIM - Remote Infrastructure Management
  35. RO - Reverse Osmosis
  36. SEZs - Special Economic Zones
  37. SMAC - Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud
  38. SSA – Secondary Switching Area
  39. STPI - Software Technology Parks of India
  40. TANGEDCO - Tamilnadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd.
  41. TDS - Tax Deducted at Source
  42. TNSWAN - Tamil Nadu State Wide Area Network
  43. TNIDA - Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Act
  44. TNIDB - Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board
  45. TNERC - Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission
  46. TNSDC - Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation
  47. TNF&RS - Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services
  48. TVA - Tamil Virtual Academy




                              Annexure – IV

Definitions of Communication Providers:
1. Class A (National Area) – This license is for Pan India operations.

2. Class B (Telecom Circle/Metro Area) – Class B license is issued for a total of 20 major states
   or any of the following Metro Cities – Mumbai, New Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru. The
   Government keeps issuing notifications regarding territories declared as telecom circles and
   metro areas from time to time.

3. Class C (Secondary Switching Area (SSA)) – This license is for only a particular secondary
   switching area. A secondary switching area is a government defined territory which could
   comprise several small villages, towns or even districts. A class C license holder will have
   access to any 1 particular SSA only, unless he applies for multiple authorizations under one
   unified License.




36                                                                       Government of Tamil Nadu
                             NATIONAL POLICY


         National Policy on Information Technology, 2012
                           (NPIT 2012)

PREAMBLE
Information Technology is a key driver of an increasingly knowledge based global economy. A
knowledge based economy is now a sine qua non for leadership. Given its current global position in
the IT and ITES sector, India is well positioned to enhance and leverage its IT capabilities towards
this end. Technology has transformational power. It is a great leveler of opportunity within and
across economies. Recognizing this potential of IT, several economies in the Asia-Pacific region
have invested in infrastructure and adopted proactive policies to foster adoption of IT pervasively.
Consequently their economies have experienced much faster and more equitable growth and their
development indices have moved up rapidly.

India aspires to become a knowledge economy with a global role. The Indian economy has
achieved a growth rate of around 8 % over the last decade, and the contribution of IT Sector to
this growth is significant. The Indian IT industry is a USD 100 Billion industry (2011-12) with
80% of the revenues coming from exports. The Indian IT & ITES sector employs over 2.8 million
skilled people. The IT sector has been one of the major employment generators in the last two
decades. The global IT-ITES market has been growing. Current negative trends in many economies
around the globe provide both challenges and new opportunities. New competitors emerge, often
unpredicted. This flux in the global economy highlights the need for constant reappraisal of
strategy and the imperative of identifying new markets and new services and seeking ways to
leverage and extend the reach of domestic non-IT services like engineering, health, education,
skill development, security, legal, financial, accounting, transport & logistics etc. There is room for
growth but no room for complacency. A conducive policy environment and a concerted strategy is
needed for the country to remain a global player on a long term basis.

While IT export growth is satisfactory despite global recession in the last few years, the impact of
IT within the country is uneven. Despite relatively sluggish growth of the domestic market and
low levels of ICT usage and penetration in the past, today there are very encouraging signs of
accelerating recourse to ICTs in most sectors of the economy and society. There are many drivers
propelling this change. Global competition, pressure to cut costs and improve efficiency, need to
address IT-savvy global and domestic markets and compulsion to provide client-centric services to
a large number of customers are some of the factors responsible.

However, the bulk of Indian IT exports is still targeted towards North America and Europe. Besides,
major IT hubs like Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Pune and NCR which account for
nearly 90% of the total Industry in India are near saturated and face infrastructural challenges
and human resource constraints for further expansion. This necessitates the absolute imperative



Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                                 37
for Indian IT and ITES Industry to diversify into Tier II and Tier III cities. Emerging technologies
such as Mobile Technology, Localization, Virtualization, and Cloud Computing provide Indian IT /
ITES industry a major opportunity to become partners in value creation and drive transformation
domestically.

India today stands at the cusp of development. The Indian workforce is young - with 50% of the
population below 25 years. The younger generation is also quick to adopt new technologies. This
factor is one of our core competitive strengths. Relying on this advantage, enhanced use of ICT
(Information & Communication Technologies) can help usher in sustained growth of the Indian
economy.

ICT is known to have transformed businesses and created new products and markets and improved
the productivity and efficiency in other sectors. Sectors like Finance, Retail, Courier, Media are
just a few examples in this context. For India to retain its competitive edge in sectors in which
it is traditionally strong like textiles as also in emerging sectors, it is imperative that ICTs are
appropriately adopted. Similarly, the importance of ICTs in strategic sectors like Defence, Atomic
Energy, Space etc is paramount.

The National Policy on IT focuses on application of technology-enabled approaches to overcome
monumental developmental challenges in education, health, skill development, financial
inclusion, employment generation, governance etc. to greatly enhance efficiency across the board
in the economy. The policy seeks to achieve the twin goals of bringing the full power of ICT within
the reach of the whole of India and harnessing the capability and human resources of the whole
of India to enable India to emerge as the Global Hub and Destination for IT and ITES Services by
2020. The focus of the IT policy is therefore on deployment of ICT in all sectors of the economy
and on providing IT solutions to the world. The Policy aims at attaining these objectives through
coordinated action on the part of both the Central and State governments.

Emerging technology trends will make it possible for millions of citizens to access services
electronically in self-service mode using mobile phones and the Internet or through assisted
service points such as Common Services Centers etc. This goal is made possible through ubiquitous
network connectivity based on mobile technology, broadband Internet, fiber penetration to all
villages, high-technology and low-cost affordable devices and software solutions which enable
electronic access to services including e-payments.

A unique AADHAAR based electronic authentication framework would be an integral part of
systems providing services to the people. Cloud computing will significantly speed up design
and roll out of services, enable social networking and participative governance and eCommerce
on a scale which was just not possible with traditional technology solutions. 	Adoption of IT by
civil society is also increasing by leaps and bounds. Rising use of social media presents a unique
opportunity to reach a large percentage of the population in ways that were not possible earlier.
Used appropriately, they could substantially enhance the democratic and governance fabric of the
country.

In keeping with these trends, Governments at all levels in the country are aggressively adopting
e-Governance to improve accessibility, transparency and efficiency. Social Media could also be
utilised to facilitate peer-to-peer interaction and thereby promote horizontal communication to
foster the growth of a connected society.

There is a strong synergy between IT adoption and the growth of Broadband Infrastructure. Mobile
telephony is now well spread out all over the country due to a combination of factors – including
low cost devices and low tariff. Over 850 million subscribers can benefit from Mobile Internet with


38                                                                     Government of Tamil Nadu
a supportive development environment with low cost smartphones/handheld devices, competitive
tariffs and provision of value added services at affordable prices. Policy-driven convergence of ICT
based business models and service capabilities with the rapidly evolving Telecom infrastructure
has the potential to create an environment which will foster the growth of citizen-services and
business models to bring about transformational change in governance and markets.

The National Policy on IT aims to maximally leverage the power of ICT to help address
monumental economic and developmental challenges the country faces. It is rooted in the
conviction that ICT has the power to transform India and improve the lives of all Indians.


I. VISION
To strengthen and enhance India’s position as the Global IT hub and to use IT and cyber
space as an engine for rapid, inclusive and substantial growth in the national economy.


II. MISSION
1.   To consolidate India’s position as the global IT & ITES hub and leverage IT to contribute
     significantly to GDP and employment.
2.   To create a sustainable ecosystem for R&D and Innovation to emerge as a global leader
     in the conception, design and development of new products, services, processes and
     business models.
3.   To leverage ICT for enhanced competitiveness and productivity of key economic and
     strategic sectors.
4.   To provide ubiquitous affordable access to information and public services for
     enhancing efficiency, transparency, accountability and reliability and leverage use of
     ICT as a driver for social inclusion
5.   To be the leading resource base for IT and ITES talent for domestic and global markets.
6.   To ensure a secure cyber space to facilitate trust and enable sustained growth of ICT.
7.   To transform India into a Knowledge Society.


III. OBJECTIVES
1.   To increase revenues of IT and ITES Industry from 100 Billion USD at present to 300
     Billion USD by 2020 and expand exports from 69 Billion USD at present to 200 Billion
     USD by 2020.
2.   To gain significant global market-share in emerging technologies and Services.
3.   To promote innovation and R&D in cutting edge technologies and development of
     applications and solutions in areas like localization, location based services, mobile
     value added services, Cloud Computing, Social Media and Utility models.




Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                              39
4.   To encourage adoption of ICTs in key economic and strategic sectors to improve their
     competitiveness and productivity.
5.   To provide fiscal benefits to SMEs and Startups for adoption of IT in value creation
6.   To create a pool of 10 million additional skilled manpower in ICT.
7.   To make at least one individual in every household e-literate.
8.   To provide for mandatory delivery of and affordable access to all public services in
     electronic mode.
9.   To enhance transparency, accountability, efficiency, reliability and decentralization in
     Government and in particular, in delivery of public services.
10. To leverage ICT for key Social Sector initiatives like Education, Health, Rural
    Development and Financial Services to promote equity and quality.
11. To make India global hub for development of language technologies, to encourage and
    facilitate development of content accessible in all Indian languages and thereby help
    bridge the digital divide.
12. To enable access of content and ICT applications by differently-abled people to foster
    inclusive development.
13. To leverage ICT for expanding the workforce and enabling life-long learning.
14. To strengthen the Regulatory and Security Framework for ensuring a Secure and
    legally compliant Cyberspace ecosystem.
15. To adopt Open standards and promote open source and open technologies


IV. STRATEGIES
1. Creating ecosystem for a globally competitive IT/ITES Industry
     1.1 To make requisite policy changes to make India a preferred destination to establish
         and operate IT/ITES enterprises including a stable tax regime and strengthening
         of the enabling infrastructure.
     1.2 To formulate Fiscal and other Policies to attract investment in IT Industry in Tier
         II & Tier III cities and rural areas for expanding the base of IT and for creating
         employment opportunities across the country.
     1.3 To promote ICT companies in accessing new markets through bilateral agreements
         enhancing smooth trade and facilitating mobility for skilled workforce and
         creating awareness
     1.4 To formulate policies to provide fiscal benefits to SMEs and Startups in the key
         industrial sectors for adoption of IT in value creation
     1.5 To evolve sector specific strategies in areas like engineering, health, education,
         skill development, security, legal, financial, accounting, etc. with the ministries



40                                                                 Government of Tamil Nadu
       and representative sector bodies concerned to create/ open up the remote services
       market in new fields / services and to enhance value addition in existing services
   1.6 To evolve new region/ market specific strategies with the ministries and industry
       bodies concerned in order to enter/expand new markets
   1.7 To integrate Indian IT products, services and expertise in Indian foreign aid
       programs

2. Human Resource Development
   2.1 To create necessary physical and institutional infrastructure for creating a pool
       of 10 million trained persons in IT sector by the year 2020 through formal and
       nonformal sectors, with focus on skill development and expertise creation.
   2.2 To set up Centers of Excellence in institutes of higher learning to promote high-end
       research in specialized ICT areas and producing quality doctoral and postdoctoral
       level researchers.
   2.3 To create a mechanism to ensure that at least one individual in every household
       is e-literate.
   2.4 To create a framework a to certify the level of applied knowledge and skills of
       personnel inspecific areas of ICT.
   2.5 To catalyse continuous updation of curriculum and syllabi at all levels to include
       the current developments and relevant knowledge of ICT as an integral part of the
       educational programmes.

3. Promotion of Innovation and R&D in IT Sector
   3.1 To support SMEs and startup companies to equip them for competitive environment
       through fiscal benefits, innovation fund and incubation facilities.
   3.2 To create an Innovation Challenge Agenda to promote innovation in ICT sector.
   3.3 To build R&D infrastructure and test facilities for development and adoption
       of emerging technologies like: Next Generation Computing Systems, High
       Performance Computing (HPC), Cloud Computing, GIS, Mobile Technologies,
       Inter-operable Infrastructure for Small Financial Transactions, Switch, Language
       Technologies etc.
   3.4 To incentivize innovation in public supported research.
   3.5 To promote industry-academia collaborative R&D with emphasis on innovation,
       products, patents and IPs
   3.6 To encourage adoption of ICT based Green technologies as well as to promote
       green technologies by making them competitive through appropriate fiscal &
       nonfiscal policies.
   3.7 To strengthen the ecosystem for creation as well as protection of Intellectual
       Property.

Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                      41
4. Enhancing productivity and competitiveness in key sectors through ICT
     4.1 To leverage ICT including mobile technology to enable outreach of secure and
         interoperable financial and banking services in remote areas at affordable cost.
     4.2 To enable long term partnership with Industry for:
         i.   use of ICT in cutting edge technology and
         ii. driving development of new ICT technologies through strategic sectors
             (defence, atomic energy, space etc).
         iii. facilitate growth of IT SMEs and use of IT across all SMEs
     4.3 To promote use of IT in key economic sectors such as Construction, Textiles,
         Pharmaceuticals, Banking, Finance, Retail, Energy, Automobiles, Healthcare,
         Education, Agriculture, Engineering Services, Transport and Logistics for
         improved efficiency and productivity.
     4.4 To promote the availability and use of Public Key Infrastructure, payment gateways
          and authentication systems leveraging Aadhaar.

5. Creating an ecosystem for Internet and mobile driven Service Industry
     5.1 To leverage Internet and Web technologies for developing new products,
         technologies and businesses.
     5.2 Enable seamless, ubiquitous, secure and personalized delivery of government
         and non-government services through  Internet based and mobile based delivery
         of services through out the country.
     5.3 Foster an ecosystem for innovation in services by leveraging Aadhaar as well as
         financial and location-based services
     5.4 To leverage mobile devices as instruments for enabling secure transactional
         services including financial services.
     5.5 To promote development of an ecosystem for enabling innovation and
         entrepreneurship related to mobile Value added Services.

6. Enabling Service Delivery through e-Governance
     6.1 To implement the National e-Governance Plan (NeGP) and mandate provision
         of all Government Services through Electronic mode within a fixed time frame
         by enactment of the Electronic   Delivery of Services (EDS) Bill and through
         reengineering processes to enhance efficiencies of service delivery.
     6.2 To mandate public procurement through electronic mode across all departments
         to enhance transparency and competition.
     6.3 To set up a widespread network of Common Service Delivery Access points for
         enabling assisted access to electronic services.



42                                                               Government of Tamil Nadu
   6.4 To accelerate and standardize delivery of electronic services by providing
       Common Shareable Service Delivery Platforms by leveraging technologies like
       Cloud Computing.
   6.5 To develop, adopt, evolve and notify standards for seamless interoperability of
       data and applications.
   6.6 To promote open standards and open technologies.
   6.7 To enhance institutional framework for Capacity Building Programme for
       imparting training across all levels.
   6.8 To design and create a citizen engagement framework for   utilization of social
       media by the government and its agencies.
   6.9 To design and implement policy framework for placing data in public domain for
       use and value addition.
   6.10 To promote Public Private Partnerships in e-Governance projects and facilitate
       flow of private sector financial and technical capabilities into the national
       egovernance effort especially in areas where viable investments are feasible.

7. Development of Language Technologies
   7.1 To undertake development of language technologies that enable text to speech
       and speech to text conversion, voice recognition, machine translation, Voice Web,
       Inter lingua etc to enable language independent delivery of services.
   7.2 To make India the global hub for language technologies.

8. GIS based IT Services
   8.1 To develop GIS platform for facilitating location based planning, service delivery,
       information availability and disaster management
   8.2 Enabling availability of public spatial data for value addition and innovation.

9. Security of Cyber Space
   9.1 To undertake policy, promotion and enabling actions for compliance to international
       security best practices and conformity assessment (product, process, technology
       & people) and incentives for compliance.
   9.2 To promote indigenous development of suitable security techniques & technology
       through frontier technology research, solution oriented research, proof of concept,
       pilot development etc. and deployment of secure IT products/processes.
   9.3 To create a culture of cyber security for responsible user behavior & actions
       including building capacities and awareness campaigns.
   9.4 To create, establish and operate an ‘Information Security Assurance Framework.



Information Communication Technology Policy - 2018                                       43
     For information and enquiries:
     For information and enquiries:
     Secretary
     Secretary to
               to Government
                  Government of
                             of Tamil
                                Tamil Nadu,
                                      Nadu,
     Information Technology Department,
     Information Technology Department,
     Secretariat, Chennai 600 009, Tamil Nadu, India.
     Secretariat, Chennai 600 009, Tamil Nadu, India.
     7HO(PDLOVHF\LW#WQQLFLQ
     7HO(PDLOVHF\LW#WQQLFLQ
     website - www.ittamilnadu.tn.gov.in
     Managing Director
     Managing Director
     Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd.., (ELCOT),
     Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd.., (ELCOT),
     (A Government of Tamil Nadu undertaking)
     (A Government of Tamil Nadu undertaking)
     $QQD6DODL1DQGDQDP&KHQQDL7DPLO1DGX,QGLD
     $QQD6DODL1DQGDQDP&KHQQDL7DPLO1DGX,QGLD
     7HO)D[
     7HO)D[
     (PDLOPG#HOFRWLQLQIR#HOFRWLQ
     (PDLOPG#HOFRWLQLQIR#HOFRWLQ
     website - www.elcot.in




44
44
                                               GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
                                               GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
     For information and enquiries:

     Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu,
     Information Technology Department,
     Secretariat, Chennai 600 009, Tamil Nadu, India.
     Tel: 91- 44- 25670783 E mail: secyit@tn.nic.in




46                                           GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
