i
1     Introduction ............................................................................. 2

2     Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy ...................................................... 6

3     Tamil Nadu Integrated Logistics Plan ...................................... 30

4     Institutional Framework and Mechanism ................................. 84

Annexure 1: Overview of Tamil Nadu Economy .............................. 95

Annexure 2: Identification of key Policy Levers/ Strategic Themes for
Logistics Policy .......................................................................... 109

Annexure 3: Identifying issues, requirements and emerging trends for
Logistics Plan ............................................................................. 117

Annexure 4: Logistics Plan Investment Quantum for identified three
freight corridors in TN ................................................................ 143

Abbreviations ……………………………………………………………………………… 148


                                                                                                 ii
    Table of Exhibits

Exhibit 1: Plan interventions across policy levers/ strategic themes and timeframes ................... 31
Exhibit 2: Institutional framework for implementation of TNLP & TNILP, 2023............................ 84
Exhibit 3: Constitution of the Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) ...................................... 85
Exhibit 4: Constitution of the Network Planning Group (NPG) .................................................... 86
Exhibit 5: Key Ministries, Department and Agencies for implementation of TNLP & TNILP ............ 91
Exhibit 6: Gross District Domestic Product - District-wise share across TN .................................. 97
Exhibit 7: Existing industrial clusters/developments in Tamil Nadu ........................................... 100
Exhibit 8: Upcoming industrial clusters/developments in Tamil Nadu ....................................... 101
Exhibit 9: Area under Agriculture and Horticulture Cultivation in Tamil Nadu (2015-16 to 2019-20)
......................................................................................................................................... 102
Exhibit 10: Agriculture and horticulture production in Tamil Nadu (2015-16 to 2019-20).......... 102
Exhibit 11: District wise distribution of agriculture area by commodity ..................................... 106
Exhibit 12: District wise distribution of horticulture area by commodity ................................... 107
Exhibit 13: LEADS parameters mapped to policy levers and strategic themes ........................... 112
Exhibit 14: Globally emerging themes and good practices in logistics sector ............................. 113
Exhibit 15: Strategic themes for Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy ................................................... 115
Exhibit 16: Contours of study and mapping of trunk and terminal logistics infrastructure .......... 119
Exhibit 17: Trunk logistics infrastructure in Tamil Nadu .......................................................... 120
Exhibit 18: Terminal logistics infrastructure in Tamil Nadu (Part 1) .......................................... 121
Exhibit 19: Terminal logistics infrastructure in Tamil Nadu (Part 2) .......................................... 122
Exhibit 20: Summary of infrastructure review, site visits and stakeholder consultations ............ 123
Exhibit 21: Logistics costs as a proportion of GVA for certain sectors ...................................... 129
Exhibit 22: Identified Exim and domestic corridors for studying logistics costs .......................... 131
Exhibit 23: Key Origin-Destination points vis-à-vis the identified Domestic Corridor ................... 132
Exhibit 24: Approach for Logistics Cost Assessment ............................................................... 133
Exhibit 25: EXIM Corridor Direct Port Entry (DPE) Movement .................................................. 134
Exhibit 26: Indirect Logistics Cost ......................................................................................... 134
Exhibit 27: Domestic Corridor Movement .............................................................................. 135
Exhibit 28: Issues highlighted in LEADS Report 2021 ............................................................. 137
Exhibit 29 Framework for estimation of investment quantum .................................................. 144
Exhibit 30: Estimated investment across key segments under the Plan (In Rs. Crore) ................ 144
Exhibit 31: Potential sources of investment outlay envisaged for implementation of Plan initiatives
(Rs. Crore) .......................................................................................................................... 145




                                                                                                                                           iii
S
1 Introduction
Tamil Nadu is India's second largest state economy, accounting for 9.47%1 of the
country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as of 2020-21. The Gross State Domestic
Product (GSDP) of Tamil Nadu expanded at a healthy Compounded Annual Growth
Rate (CAGR) of 10.02% between 2014-15 and 2020-21 viz-a-vis 9.46% for the
country, to reach Rs. 19.03 trillion.

The distribution of Gross (State) Value Added (GVA/GSVA) by sector indicates
contribution of primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors in the ratio of 13%: 33%:
54% respectively vis-a-vis 20%: 26%: 54% for the country outlining a vibrant
manufacturing sector in the State.

The Government of Tamil Nadu has set a target for its GSDP to reach USD 1 trillion
(~Rs. 82.41 trillion2) by 2030. To meet this target, the State has planned to grow
the manufacturing sector from USD 48.1 billion in financial year 2020-21 (~18% of
GSDP) to USD 250 billion in financial year 2030-313 (~25% of GSDP) 4. Further, the
State has also planned to grow the exports from ~USD 26 billion to USD 100 billion
by 20305. To realise the envisioned economic targets, enhancing competitiveness
of the State’s economic sectors, especially agriculture and industry is imperative.

Logistics efficiency, characterised by logistics cost reduction, is one of the well-
recognised levers for trade competitiveness, export growth and diversification. As
per a study conducted by the National Council of Applied Economic Research
(NCAER), logistics costs as a percentage of GVA for some of the prominent sectors
in the State are - Agriculture: 21.6%, Textile & Apparel: 7.91%, Electronics: 4.19%,
Cement:12,97% and Machinery at 17.9%6. Empirical studies suggest that reduction




1
    Industries Department, Policy Note 2022-23
2
  Considering 1USD = 82.41 INR as per prevailing exchange rate
3
  Industries Department, Policy Note 2022-2023
4
    Industries Department, Policy Note 2022-2023
5
    Tamil Nadu Export Promotion Strategy 2021
6
    Country level estimates as per NCAER’s study titled Analysis of India’s Logistics Costs, 2019


        Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                                Page 2 of 148
of logistics costs can result in enhanced demand for goods, employment
opportunities and growth7.

Evidently, the vision of economic growth can be realized, if the supporting and
required logistics eco-system is developed at the same pace.

The logistics eco-system in any State or any other geographical context operates in
terms of interaction between 3 elements – (1) Infrastructure (trunk and terminal),
(2) Services, and (3) Operating and Regulatory environment, and requires the inter-
connected working of a number of agencies, stakeholders and operators. The state’s
logistics ecosystem has considerably evolved over time but continues to face some
challenges across these aspects.

Therefore, being cognizant of the importance of development of an efficient
logistics sector for the economic development of the State and the country, the
Government of Tamil Nadu GoTN has formulated the Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy and
Integrated Logistics Plan 2023 with a multi-sector, interdisciplinary and integrated
approach for creating an efficient logistics eco-system in the State.

The Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy and Integrated Logistics Plan 2023 document
comprises:

           A Logistics Policy for the next 5 years that provides an overarching policy
            framework for integrated development of the logistics sector in the State to
            support economic growth.

           An Integrated Logistics Plan for the next 10 years outlining various
            interventions identified as per the initial baseline study, their envisaged
            outcomes, timeliness as well as key stakeholders responsible for their
            implementation. To align with the emerging requirements as well as
            developments in the industry, the plan is envisaged to be updated on a rolling
            basis while also considering outcomes of identified interventions and inputs
            from stakeholders.



7
    Policy Research Working Paper by The World Bank - Improving Logistics Costs for Transportation and Trade Facilitation


        Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                                       Page 3 of 148
   Institutional framework and mechanism for implementation of the Logistics
    Policy and Integrated Logistics Plan leveraging the 2-tier institutional
    framework, comprising an Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) and a
    Network Planning Group (NPG), created for coordinating and facilitating
    integrated development of the logistics sector in the State under the PM Gati
    Shakti initiative.




Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023       Page 4 of 148
Tamil Nadu Integrated Logistics Policy & Plan (TNLP & TNILP) 2022   Page 5 of 152
2 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy
2.1 Focus of the Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy (TNLP)
A robust and cost-efficient logistics system is considered a key enabler for the
development and growth of an economy. The logistics system comprises services
relating to transportation, storage and handling of cargo, as well as facets of value-
addition. Though the sector has evolved significantly over the years, it continues to
be impacted by various interconnected issues such as:

      Lack of integrated infrastructure planning

      Sub-optimal transportation modal mix

      In-sufficient infrastructure or inter-linkages

      Cumbersome processes and limited technology adoption or its integration
       across the eco-system

      Limited standardization

      Shortage of skilled professionals

The Government of India (GoI) has launched initiatives to address/ resolve these
issues. Some of them being the recently launched PM Gati Shakti National
Masterplan, Logistics Efficiency Enhancement Programme (LEEP), development of
Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFCs), Bharatmala Pariyojana, Sagarmala Programme,
formulation of the National Rail Plan (NRP), National Infrastructure Pipeline and Jal
Marg Vikas Project.

Further, to leverage the benefits of competitive federalism, the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry developed the Logistics Ease Across Different States
(LEADS) Index that ranks states on performance of the logistics eco-system in their
boundaries.

The Government of Tamil Nadu (GoTN) has been taking up a number of policy and
strategic initiatives for development of transport and logistics infrastructure in the

   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023         Page 6 of 148
State and has envisaged various projects pertaining to development and
upgradation of airport complexes, seaports, roads and highways, multi-modal
logistics parks and dedicated rail freight corridors. The GoTN has also prepared the
Tamil Nadu Export Promotion Strategy 2021 with the goal of increasing exports
from Tamil Nadu to USD 100 billion by 2030 from USD 26 billion in 2021. In this
context, the State has identified champion sectors to promote exports including
Textile & Apparel, Food Processing, Auto & Auto Components, Leather & Footwear,
Electronics, and Machinery.

The GoTN is also implementing multiple large scale transport and connectivity
infrastructure projects across the State – including the Tamil Nadu Road Sector
Project, Tamil Nadu Industrial Connectivity Project and Comprehensive Road
Infrastructure Development Programme, among others.

Until recently, policy and strategic initiatives by the central and state governments
concerning logistics sector focussed on investment in infrastructure – with the
infrastructure development agenda largely being driven by separate agencies
integration.

With participation of the private sector across various parts of the transport &
logistics value chain and development of technology, the industry has witnessed
several instances (across ports, container train operations, development of logistics
terminals, etc.) where service provision and adoption of technology have positively
impacted logistics service delivery to end users. Accordingly, the role of other
elements like service provision, improvement in the regulatory environment,
adoption of technology, focus on sustainability and skill development has now come
into sharper focus. Therefore, the Government of Tamil Nadu has formulated the
Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy with a multi-sector, interdisciplinary and integrated
approach for creating an efficient logistics eco-system in the State

2.2 Vision and Strategic Objectives
The vision of Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy 2023 is “To promote an integrated,
reliable, cost-efficient and sustainable logistics system in the State of Tamil Nadu



   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023        Page 7 of 148
for enhanced competitiveness and fast-tracked economic development of the
State.”

To realise the vision, the Logistics Policy enunciates measures that the Government
of Tamil Nadu will accordingly take and/ or facilitate across six strategic objectives
– with a clear focus on the “need” as well as intended “outcomes” in each case.

The strategic objectives were identified by assessing key aspects impacting logistics
performance (based on frameworks for preparation of the International Logistics
Performance Index – LPI by the World Bank as well as the Logistics Ease Across
Different States – LEADS in India by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
Government of India) and global best practices, that could bring about a long-term
improvement in the transport & logistics ecosystem.

The Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy 2023 strives to realise its vision by achieving the
following strategic objectives:

  (I) Enabling Integrated and robust logistics infrastructure development
  (II) Promoting availability of cost-effective & high-quality services
  (III) Creating enabling environment for logistics activities
  (IV) Inculcating resilience and sustainability in Logistics Eco-system
  (V) Adopting new age technologies in Logistics sector
  (VI) Enabling skill development in logistics sector

The Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy will target the following key outcomes for achieving
the vision:

    Reduction of cost of logistics (for export-import as well as domestic freight)
       in the State
    Leveraging private participation for development of logistics infrastructure;
       and
    Formulating an effective coordination mechanism between State and Central
       agencies towards facilitation and execution of initiatives concerning the
       logistics sector



   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023           Page 8 of 148
    Consistent high ranking of the State of Tamil Nadu in the LEADS index of the
       Government of India
    Enhanced economic growth and employment generation



2.3 Interventions to achieve strategic objectives

A Enabling integrated                          and         robust   logistics   infrastructure
  development
An efficient logistics system is characterised by robust connectivity of logistics
infrastructure with cargo clusters that include industrial, agricultural, fisheries and
animal husbandry clusters. This necessitates synchronised planning and targeted
interventions through enhanced coordination between agencies responsible for
logistics, agricultural and industrial infrastructure development.

Further, manufacturing and other export industries of the State need to grow at a
significant pace to support realisation of the economic vision of the State to be a
USD 1 trillion economy by 2030. The GoTN has been taking up various initiatives in
this direction including development of new industries, industrial parks/estates,
food parks, etc. at various locations in the State. The enhanced industrial and
agricultural activity associated with these developments shall require augmentation
of the transport and logistics infrastructure in the State through both brownfield and
greenfield projects. In this backdrop, the TNLP 2023 identifies logistics
infrastructure capacity creation as one of its key focus areas.

Enhancing and preserving liveability of cities is also a major focus area of the GoTN
for the welfare of the State’s populace. The liveability of cities is often hampered by
in-efficient urban freight logistics. In this regard, the TNLP 2023 identifies efficient
urban freight logistics as a key lever and provides for interventions for better
planning and creation of urban freight logistics infrastructure.




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                    Page 9 of 148
A(I) Enabling synchronized planning for logistics infrastructure through a defined
     coordinated mechanism

➢ The GoTN will leverage the GIS layers of the State Master Plan being prepared
   under the PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan for enabling integrated planning
   and connectivity enhancement.


➢ The GoTN will leverage the two-tier institutional framework comprising of
   Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) and a Network Planning Group (NPG)
   for coordinating and facilitating integrated development of the logistics sector in
   the State.


A(II) Identifying and resolving existing connectivity bottlenecks and development
     of new infrastructure


➢ The GoTN in consultation with the relevant stakeholders will assess the
   connectivity gaps vis-à-vis the existing industrial clusters, agricultural
   aggregation/ processing centres, fisheries/marine clusters, animal husbandry
   clusters and logistics terminals/infrastructure (goods sheds, Multi-modal
   Logistics Parks (MMLPs), truck terminals, ports etc.), and will prioritise the
   development of road connectivity. For rail connectivity, GoTN will support
   identification of connectivity gaps, and coordinate with the Ministry of Railways
   for implementation.


➢ In order to improve the efficiency of logistics terminals and curtail the dwell time
   and turnaround time, the GoTN will plan, coordinate/ facilitate projects related
   to development/ augmentation/ improvement of evacuation infrastructure for
   the existing and planned airports and seaports in the State.


➢ The GoTN will facilitate first/ last mile road connectivity (from nearest railways
   station and/ or State Highway/ National Highway/ Major District Road) to
   upcoming logistics infrastructure projects qualifying the definition and threshold
   outlined under the extant Harmonised Master List of Infrastructure Sub-sectors


   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023        Page 10 of 148
    of the Department of Economic Affairs8, under extant policies and funding and
    investment programs of the State Government. Upon request of the developer
    of such logistics infrastructure projects to the Nodal Agency for logistics in the
    State, these connectivity projects will be taken up for monitoring and
    implementation coordination as part of the Logistics Plan (using the institutional
    mechanism for implementation of the Logistics Plan).


➢ The GoTN will encourage capacity expansion of existing ICDs/ CFSs/ AFSs/
    FTWZs and development of new ICDs/ CFSs/ AFSs/ FTWZs, through provision of
    Government land in accordance with extant land allocation policy and increase in
    demand at strategic locations in the State, as per the provisions of Policy and
    Guidelines for setting up of Inland Container Depots (ICDs), Container Freight
    Stations (CFSs) and Air Freight Station (AFSs) – by Government of India.


➢ The GoTN will encourage expansion of existing minor ports and development of
    greenfield minor ports considering the regional development requirements and
    demand. The GoTN will also encourage the expansion and development of fishing
    harbours and marine processing zones in the State.


➢ An appropriate land parcel will be earmarked in the upcoming industrial
    parks/estates/clusters in the State accommodating manufacturing and
    processing units for the development of truck terminal/yard and for carrying out
    common logistics activities. Development of such facilities will preferably be
    undertaken through private participation.


➢ The GoTN will identify unutilised factory sheds within the existing industrial
    parks/estates/clusters in the state and make them available for logistics
    activities, wherever feasible.




8
  Logistics Infrastructure” means and includes Multimodal Logistics Park comprising Inland Container Depot (ICD) with minimum
investment of Rs. 50 crore and minimum area of 10-acre, Cold Chain Facility with minimum investment of Rs. 15 crore and
minimum area of 20,000 sq.ft., and/or Warehousing Facility with investment of minimum Rs. 25 crore and minimum area of 1 lakh
sq ft." as per Notification dated 11th Oct 2022


    Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                                        Page 11 of 148
➢ The GoTN will identify strategic locations for development of truck terminals for
     driver resting areas, parking spaces and repair and maintenance along
     National/State highways, near industrial clusters and peripheries of high cargo
     density areas. Development of such facilities will preferably be undertaken
     through private participation.


➢ In line with the demand and requirement at specific locations, the GoTN in
     coordination with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) or any other airport
     operator will promote capacity and infrastructure augmentation/optimization in
     terms of facilities in existing air cargo complexes and development of new air
     cargo complexes in the State.


➢ The GoTN will identify and earmark land parcels, minimum 50 acres, at strategic
     locations in the State for development of Multimodal Logistics Parks/Logistics
     Park /Warehousing Clusters9/Private Freight Terminal (PFT). Such projects will
     preferably be developed through private participation.


➢ The GoTN will coordinate with and make adequate representation to the Ministry
     of Railways and/or its agencies for improvement and expansion of infrastructure
     and facilities at the existing goods sheds in accordance with the requirements of
     users.


➢ The GoTN, will undertake development of primary processing centres in the State
     to cater to the requirements of primary processing of horticulture produce.
     Further, it will identify locations/clusters for development and strengthening of
     cold chain infrastructure in the State.


➢ The GoTN will assess and identify pilot routes for development of dedicated/
     high-capacity rail freight corridors in the State in coordination with the Ministry
     of Railways.


9
 Including commodity specific storage infrastructure such as controlled atmosphere and cold storage, tank farms and silos among
others


    Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                                          Page 12 of 148
➢ The GoTN will facilitate mega projects in logistics sector – entailing investments
   of more than Rs. 500 crores, by considering them for customised incentives.


➢ To attract and enable financing for large scale logistics infrastructure
   development, the GoTN will co-ordinate with financial institution such as National
   Investment & Infrastructure Fund (NIIF), Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund (TNIF)
   or any other suitable sources for leveraging funds.


A(III) Development of logistics plan for major cities and metropolitan regions


➢ The GoTN will encourage phase wise preparation of logistics master plan for
   major cities/metropolitan regions in the State to promote city logistics.



B Promoting availability of cost-effective and high- quality services
Availability of high-quality logistics services at competitive prices is one of the key
levers for enhancing competitiveness of businesses. It enables access to various
markets at competitive prices and contributes to vibrancy of the manufacturing and
other export industries.


The freight transportation services sector in Tamil Nadu is heavily dominated by
road transport. For instance, export-import cargo movement via rail to/from ports
in the State on a large number of corridors has a share of only ~10%. Further, the
rail traffic movements in the State are largely confined to within State or nearby
states, with long lead inter-state rail movements dominated by road transport. Also,
coastal shipping services and domestic container rail services are limited and
confined to only a few routes. This scenario is due to a number of reasons including
shortage of return cargo for domestic container rail services and coastal shipping
services and limited availability of modern rail linked/inter-modal terminals.


Further, the quality of logistics services in some of the specific segments in Tamil
Nadu have a significant scope for improvement. For instance, the dwell time for air

   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023         Page 13 of 148
cargo is significantly high and a number of government warehousing facilities
practice conventional storage and handling methods that require modernisation.


B(I) Enabling availability of cost- effective logistics services by supporting
     market development


➢ The GoTN will, in coordination with the Ministry of Railways and/or its agencies
   and through private participation, on pilot basis – encourage commencement of
   container rail services and kisan rail services on strategic routes under market
   development approach.


➢ The GoTN will assess and identify strategic coastal shipping routes to encourage
   and promote inter-modal transport that will result in cost effective services.


➢ The GoTN will coordinate with the relevant agencies/airport operator to improve
   quality of air cargo related services at air cargo complexes in Tamil Nadu.
   Further, the GoTN will engage with Central Bureau of Indirect taxes & Customs
   (CBIC)/airport operators/port authorities and operators on a continuous basis to
   take appropriate steps for reducing the dwell time at air cargo complexes and
   seaports in the state.


B(II) Provision of high-quality contemporary services to users


➢ In order to strengthen cold chain infrastructure and expand the market for
   perishable commodities produced in the state, the GoTN will encourage
   availability of reefer vehicle fleet by providing fiscal support to logistics/trucking
   companies on registration charges for the purchase/retrofit of reefer trucks.


➢ The GoTN will promote mechanisation and automation of warehousing sector in
   the State to improve the handling capacity, efficiency and quality of services.




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023           Page 14 of 148
➢ The GoTN will encourage logistics companies and service providers towards
   adoption of quality management system (Integrated Management System (IMS)/
   International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001/ISO 14001/
   Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001/SA 8000) in
   their facilities.


➢ The GoTN will encourage development of Multi-Modal Logistics Park (MMLP) at
   strategic locations in coordination with central agencies and relevant
   stakeholders to promote intermodal transport and high-quality logistics services.


C Creating an enabling environment for logistics activities
Fast tracking approval/ clearance processes, handholding logistics sector investors
and operators, strengthening enforcement and regulatory compliance framework
and extending industry status and applicable incentives to logistics sector have been
identified among the key levers for enhancement of ease of doing business in
logistics sector in Tamil Nadu. The creation of an enabling environment for logistics
activities through these specific interventions is expected to enhance attractiveness
of Tamil Nadu as an investment destination for logistics players.


C(I) Developing single window clearance systems


➢ The GoTN will extend the existing single window clearance setup under the aegis
   of Guidance Tamil Nadu and FaMe TN department to logistics activities in the
   State for enhancement of ease of doing business.


➢ The GoTN will extend the existing grievance re-addressable system under the
   aegis of Guidance Tamil Nadu to logistics activities in the State.



➢ The GoTN will create a single window clearance system for movement of project
   cargo and over dimensional cargo in the State.



   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023         Page 15 of 148
C(II) Providing industry status and extending incentives applicable for industry in
     logistics sector


➢ In order to promote development of logistics terminals and warehousing, the
   GoTN will extend the provision of special incentives for logistics infrastructure as
   mentioned under Para-17 of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy, 2021 to the
   following categories that qualify as per the extant Harmonized Master List of
   infrastructure sub-sectors of the Department of Economic Affairs, Government
   of India.
        •    Multimodal Logistics Park comprising Inland Container Depot (ICD) with a
             minimum investment of Rs. 50 cr. and minimum area of 10-acre and/or,
        •    Cold Chain Facility with a minimum investment of Rs. 15 cr. and minimum
             area of 20,000 sq. ft, and/or
        •    Warehousing Facility with a minimum investment of Rs. 25 cr. and
             minimum area of 1 lakh sq. ft.


➢ The GoTN has already permitted 24X7 operations of facilities. This will also be
    applicable to operations of logistics and warehousing facilities in the State.


➢ The GoTN will re-classify the warehouse segment to industries category to
    facilitate ease of doing business in the State.


➢ The GoTN will take necessary steps to increase the maximum permissible height
    for warehouse development up to 24m.


➢ The GoTN will create a separate sub-category for warehouse development under
    the industries category for streamlining the registration process.


➢ During the master planning phase, the GoTN will earmark specific strategic
    regions/ locations for development of logistics facilities that will act as an
    aggregation centre and provide intermodal services.


   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023          Page 16 of 148
➢ To        promote            logistics         activities       within   government    industrial
   parks/estates/clusters in the State for development of warehouses or built to
   suit practices, the GoTN will waive off the sub-leasing charges, charged by the
   government industrial estates.


C(III) Institutionalizing “Logistics Council” for data driven decision making


➢ The GoTN will establish a “Logistics Council” that will act as an advisory group to
   the Nodal Agency and facilitate co-ordination with logistics operators, logistics
   service providers and trade associations to understand the issues, gaps and
   future requirements in the logistics sector. The logistics council will also support
   in data driven decision making and recommending initiatives for the progression
   of logistics sector in the State.



D Inculcating resilience and Sustainability in the logistics eco-system
Sustainability and resilience are a key focus area for the GoTN across various facets
of economic activity. Promotion of environment friendly modes of transport,
reducing emissions through adoption of green fuels/ technology and incorporating
energy efficient design standards in creation of logistics infrastructure have been
identified as the key levers to enhance sustainability in the logistics ecosystem. In
this context, pipeline infrastructure for transportation of gas is also being developed
in the State.

D(I) Promoting modal shift to environment friendly modes of transport and
     adoption of environment friendly fuels/technology


➢ In order to reduce environmental footprint of the logistics sector, the GoTN will
   encourage modal shift from road to environment friendly rail and coastal
   shipping through development of terminal infrastructure including captive jetties
   and Gati Shakti multi-modal cargo terminals.



   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                     Page 17 of 148
➢ The GoTN will support coastal shipping for transportation of freight on viable
   trade routes under market development approach in coordination with Tamil
   Nadu Maritime Board.


➢ The GoTN will explore the possibility of developing e-Highway Corridors on the
   existing/proposed major freight corridors in the State to promote environment
   friendly freight movement.


D(II) Promoting use of sustainable design through incentivisation


➢ The GoTN will promote use of electric vehicles and green fuel technologies –
   including ‘Green Hydrogen’, for freight movement in the State. GoTN will
   encourage e-commerce and delivery companies to transition to fleet of electric/
   green fuel commercial vehicles. Fleet of electric vehicles would be eligible for
   incentives listed under Tamil Nadu e-Vehicle Policy, 2019 or any superseding
   policy, as applicable.


➢ The GoTN will encourage adoption of sustainable design standards and greening
   solutions that obtain rating under LEED certification or GRIHA systems for the
   development of logistics infrastructure.




E Adopting new age technologies in logistics

Adoption of technology has been identified as one of the key enablers for enhancing
efficiency, reducing costs, building resilience, and improving service standards in
logistics globally. Therefore, to enable development of a logistics ecosystem that is
at par with global standards, the TN Logistics Policy 2023 promotes adoption of new
age technologies by businesses engaged in logistics through interventions and
incentivisation.

In this respect, the Tamil Nadu logistics policy, 2023 envisages the following
interventions:

   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023        Page 18 of 148
E(I) Promoting technology adoption and innovation


➢ The GoTN in coordination with relevant agencies will promote adoption of
   technology at Central/State government logistics terminals/facilities to improve
   efficiency and/or enhance service quality.


➢ The GoTN will promote innovation and technology enabled solutions for
   efficiency improvement in logistics sector by providing fiscal incentives to
   technology providers, start-ups and other business units.


➢ The GoTN will encourage start-ups in the logistics sector to avail funds & benefits
   within the Tamil Nadu Emerging Sector Seed Fund and/or TANSEED Grant Fund
   under the Tamil Nadu Start-up and Innovation Policy.


E(II) Creating tracking and monitoring infrastructure
➢ The GoTN will encourage and incentivise logistics service providers having
   registered offices in Tamil Nadu for technology adoption through provision of
   fiscal support towards technology adoption cost that will improve/ enable:


             o Tracking and tracing of cargo;
             o Exchange of information and documentation essential for logistics
                 processes;
             o Efficiency improvement and process automation; or
             o Quality of service


➢ The GoTN will encourage and promote tracking and tracing of cargo movement
   across the major Export-Import (EXIM) corridors in the State to bring visibility &
   transparency in logistics eco-system, streamline the value chain and improve the
   management of logistics network.




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023        Page 19 of 148
E(III) Technology based interventions for monitoring compliances


➢ To reduce dependence on physical enforcement and avoid multiple stoppages of
   enroute vehicles, accelerate adoption of IT based system, enforcement
   mechanism, traffic cameras, RFID readers on freight vehicles along with
   integration of government data repository/portals.


F Enabling skill development in the logistics sector
Availability of skilled workforce can act as a key enabler for attracting investments,
and setting up of, new businesses in the logistics sector. The TNLP 2023 envisages
skill development of logistics sector workforce in the State as one of the key focus
areas. This is expected to create a ‘win-win’ situation wherein logistics businesses
will be able to enhance their service levels and performance, and the local populace
will be able to avail employment and livelihood opportunities.

In this context, the Tamil Nadu logistics policy, 2023 envisages for the following key
initiatives:

F(I) Initiate courses to skill the workforce across logistics sub-sectors


➢ The GoTN through Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) will
   identify skill gaps and logistics job roles expected to have high demand in the
   future in coordination with the Logistics Sector Skill Council and prepare a
   Logistics Sector Skill Plan for the State.


➢ The GoTN will encourage introduction of logistics sector specific courses and
   skilling programs in the State in coordination with the Logistics Sector Skill
   Council and national and state level educational institutions and government
   bodies.


F(II) Upskill and recognize existing logistics workforce
➢ The GoTN will explore providing medical and health insurance to heavy vehicle
   drivers registered in the State at a nominal price.

   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023        Page 20 of 148
➢ The GoTN, through TNSDC, will formalize the logistics workforce by initiating
   Recognition of Prior Learning Programs in coordination with industry players.


F(III) Involve private sector to skill and create employment opportunities


➢ The GoTN will encourage development of driver training institutes under the
   Institute of Driving Training & Research (IDTR) scheme of the Ministry of Road
   Transport and Highway, Government of India. Further, establishment of driver
   training institutes through private sector participation will also be encouraged.


   The GoTN will develop a Logistics Labour Market Information System that will be
   a repository of details of logistics sector workforce in the State, accredited by
   relevant agencies for their skills.



2.4 Fiscal Incentives
The fiscal incentives proposed under the initiatives envisaged in the Tamil Nadu
Logistics Policy are as mentioned below. These fiscal incentives will be applicable
for a period of 5 years from the date of promulgation of the policy and further
extension will be considered based on the effectiveness and emerging requirements.

The GoTN intends to offer various fiscal incentives to market participants, operators
and developers towards improvement in efficiency and visibility of trade and
encourage business opportunities through private participation in the logistics
sector.

A unit that has availed any incentive for the similar nature of work under any other
scheme of the State Government or Central Government will not be eligible to avail
incentive benefits under the logistics policy.




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023        Page 21 of 148
Eligibility criteria and coverage

   •    The incentives defined under the policy will be applicable to units registered
        and operating in the State of Tamil Nadu
   •    The incentives will be applicable to new units/projects which will commence
        operations during the effective period of the policy
   •    The incentives will also be applicable for existing units/projects that have
        commenced commercial operations prior to the date of promulgation of this
        policy but are undertaking initiatives eligible for incentives during the policy
        period
The provision of fiscal incentives will be extended to the following logistics facilities
and activities as defined below:

 Categories            Logistics activity                   Eligibility/ Target audience

                       Transportation                       Trucking companies and enterprises

                                                            Container     freight    station,      inland
 Logistics                                                  container depots, cold chain facility,
                       Cargo handling
 service                                                    private freight terminals, Air freight
 providers                                                  station, warehouse operator

                       Services                             Freight     forwarders    &     Third-party
                                                            logistics players

 Logistics             Innovation                  and Start-ups & technology service provider
 technology            business units
 providers

 Developers of Developers will be eligible to avail special incentives for
 Integrated            development of Integrated Logistics Park in District “B” and “C”
 Logistics             as defined under Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy,2021.
 Park




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                            Page 22 of 148
                       “B” Category Districts (12 districts) - Coimbatore, Erode, Karur,
                       Krishnagiri,          Namakkal,            The   Nilgiris,   Ranipet,     Salem,
                       Tiruchirappalli, Tirupattur, Tiruppur, and Vellore.

                       “C” Category Districts (22 districts) – Ariyalur, Cuddalore,
                       Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Kanniyakumari, Madurai,
                       Mayiladuthurai,             Nagapattinam,         Perambulur,      Pudukkottai,
                       Ramanathapuram,                Sivagangai,       Tenkasi,    Thanjavur,    Theni,
                       Thiruvarur, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram
                       and Virudhunagar




Proposed Incentives under TN Logistics Policy
(I) Fiscal support for promoting innovation in logistics sector

Providing one time reimbursement of 100% of the patent registration fees in India
to technology providers, start-ups and other business units developing technology
enabled solutions for logistics efficiency improvement- subject to a cap of Rs.
25,000 per patent. The incentive will be available to enterprises having registered
offices in Tamil Nadu and to individual entrepreneurs who are residents of the State.

(II) Cash award for technology adoption by logistics service providers in logistics
    facilities and operations

One-time cash award of 50% of the technology adoption cost, capped at Rs. 1 crore,
to 3 applicants annually for adopting modern technologies such as RFID, Global
Positioning System (GPS), IoT, robotics & automation, blockchain, artificial
intelligence and data analytics among others. The incentive will be made available
to logistics service providers having registered offices in Tamil Nadu.

Nodal Agency, TIDCO will call out for applications annually and shortlist the
applications to encourage entities towards technology adoption.




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 23 of 148
 (III)    Fiscal support for enhancing cold chain logistics

 One-time reimbursement of 100% of (1) vehicle registration charges in the State,
 and (2) road tax for 1 year for reefer trucks including retrofitting of capacity > 15
 MT by logistics trucking companies & enterprises registered in Tamil Nadu. The fiscal
 incentive will be provided to registration of first 500 reefer trucks in the State during
 the policy period.



 (IV)     Special incentives for logistics infrastructure as defined under Tamil Nadu
Industrial Policy (TNIP), 2021

 Any facility that qualifies as Logistics Infrastructure as per the extant Harmonized
 Master List of Infrastructure sub-sectors of the Department of Economic Affairs, GOI
 will be eligible to avail fiscal incentives as defined under Para-17 of the TNIP,2021
 policy. Following incentives will be applicable:

 1. Training subsidy: Reimbursement of 50% of the training cost will be provided to
     logistics and warehousing projects (set up in “C” Districts) for technical training
     of the employee (mainly in the operational, frontline, supervisory roles) subject
     to a maximum of Rs. 10,000 per employee. The training cost can be claimed by
     the Project within one year from the date of commencement of commercial
     operations.           Training         can        be       arranged   from   any    Government
     recognized/approved institution. The incentive will only be applicable to
     residents of Tamil Nadu.


 2. Incentives for Integrated Logistics Parks: The developer of an Integrated
     Logistics Parks in “B” & “C” Category Districts will be eligible for Special
     Incentives for Warehousing & Logistics as defined in Para 15 of TNIP,2021:
     “Special Incentives for Industrial Parks”, subject to meeting the criteria for an
     Approved Logistics Park as specified in Annexure VI that will be amended in TNIP,
     2021 with 100% relaxation in the non-processing area of the park area. The
     specific incentives that shall be available are as given below:



     Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 24 of 148
(A) Capital subsidy: Integrated Logistics Park developers will be eligible for a
Capital Subsidy of 12% or 15% of investment in internal infrastructure (such as
internal roads, water distribution infrastructure, street lighting, drainage
facilities, landscaping, and green areas, but excluding the cost of land and
landfilling/levelling) in “B” or “C” Category Districts, respectively. This will be
provided based on the following milestones:
          i. 50% of the amount determined as Capital Subsidy upon paid-up
          allotment of 50% park area along with 10% operational units, i.e. either
          10% of units achieving commercial production or units occupying 10% of
          park area achieving commercial production. This will be distributed in
          equal annual instalments over 5 years.


          ii. 50% of the amount determined as Capital Subsidy upon paid-up
          allotment of 75% park area with 25% operational units, i.e. either 25% of
          units achieving commercial production or units occupying 25% of park
          area achieving commercial production. This will be distributed in equal
          annual instalments over 5 years.


 (B) Logistics Park housing incentive: In addition to Capital Subsidy, Logistics
 Park developers will be eligible for Housing Incentive of 10% on the cost of
 developing the residential facilities developed within the Logistics Park over 10
 years from the date of completion of the investment in the housing facility,
 subject to a ceiling of Rs. 10 cr.

 (C) Green Logistics Park incentive: Integrated Logistics Park developers
 undertaking green and sustainable initiatives as listed in the Tamil Nadu
 Industrial Policy, 2021, Para 13.5.3, will be eligible for a 25% subsidy on cost of
 capital for setting up undertaking such initiatives, subject to a cap of Rs.5 Cr.




Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023          Page 25 of 148
2.5 Institutional Mechanism
The State has created a 2-tier institutional framework, comprising an Empowered
Group of Secretaries (EGoS) and a Network Planning Group (NPG), for coordinating
and facilitating integrated development of the logistics sector in the State under the
PM Gati Shakti initiative.

Given the context of involvement of multiple agencies, stakeholders and operators
in the logistics sector, implementation of the Tamil Nadu Integrated Logistics Policy
2023 requires an institutional framework and mechanism for required multi-agency
coordination, discussion and decision making. The 2-tier institutional framework,
comprising EGoS and NPG, mentioned above will be leveraged for the same.

As the designated Nodal Agency for Logistics for the State, Tamil Nadu Industrial
Development Corporation Limited (TIDCO) along with the program management unit
will support the NPG and EGoS and undertake required coordination and tracking of
progress of various initiatives and incentives – working in close coordination with
relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs).

For the fiscal incentives provided under the Logistics Policy, TIDCO will be
responsible for formulation of operational guidelines. For all investment above
Rs.50 Cr, Tamil Nadu Guidance will be responsible for proposal/application
evaluation and forward its recommendations to the Industries Department for
sanction of incentives. For all investments up to Rs. 50 Cr, the evaluation of proposal
and applications will be carried out by FaMe TN and sanctioned by the
Commissionerate of Industries and Commerce.

State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited (SIPCOT) will be
responsible to act as the disbursal agency of various incentives listed out in this
policy for investment category above Rs. 50 Cr. For all investment up to Rs.50 Cr,
Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries and Commerce (ICDIC) will be
the responsible agency for disbursement of incentives.

Tamil Nadu Guidance as the designated nodal agency for facilitating single window
clearances, will be responsible for extending the same to logistics enterprises in the


   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023         Page 26 of 148
State for all investment above Rs. 50 Cr whereas the single window facilitation for
MSME segment will be undertaken by the FaMe TN department, Commissionerate of
Industries and Commerce and District Industries Centre.




2.6 Policy Duration
The Logistics Policy will be effective from the date of its promulgation by the
Government of Tamil Nadu and applicable till 5 (five) years or the notification of a
revised policy or amendment, whichever is earlier. The institutional mechanism for
review and updating of the Policy is outlined in a under section 4.5 of the document.




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023        Page 27 of 148
Annexure VI- Components of an approved Integrated Logistics Park
(to be added in the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy,2021 as an
amendment)
   1. Criteria for approval

   a) Any facility that qualifies as Logistics Infrastructure as per the extant
      Harmonised Master List of Infrastructure Sub-sectors of the DEA, GoI. The list
      currently include:

       ▪    Multimodal Logistics Park comprising Inland Container Depot (ICD) with a
            minimum area of 10-acre and/or,

       ▪    Cold Chain Facility with a minimum area of 20,000 sq. ft, and/or

       ▪    Warehousing Facility with a minimum area of 1 lakh sq. ft.

   b) Should not have more than 10% wet land or double crop land

   c) Should not include (for contiguity) more than 5% of Government land



2. Non-Processing Area: 100% relaxation

   The Integrated Logistics Park will have one or more of the following facilities over
   and above the Logistics Infrastructure as per the extant Harmonised Master List
   of Infrastructure Sub-sectors of the DEA, GoI.

   Applicable for one or more of the below given facilities:

   a) Custom bonded area

   b) Warehouse space

   c) Container stacking yard

   d) Open storage space

   e) Rail handling area

   f) Temperature-controlled storage

   g) Truck Terminal and equipment parking yard

   h) Office space for business support

   i) Space for common amenities

   j) Open space, green area and internal roads


  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023           Page 28 of 148
Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023   Page 29 of 148
3 Tamil Nadu Integrated Logistics Plan
Tamil Nadu Integrated Logistics Plan (TNILP), 2023 includes a strategic plan for the
next 10 years – outlining identified interventions, their envisaged outcomes,
timelines as well as key stakeholders’ responsible for their implementation.

A methodical and consultative approach was adopted for undertaking a gap and
need analysis to identify the interventions for the Integrated Logistics Plan. The
exercise is summarised at Annexure 3 of this document.

The timelines for implementation of identified interventions have been categorized
as follows with respect to the date of notification of the plan:

    Short Term             : Up to 2 years from notification

    Medium Term            : 2 to 5 years

    Long Term              : 5 to 10 years

To align with the emerging requirements as well as developments in the industry,
the plan is envisaged to be updated on a rolling basis while also considering
outcomes of identified interventions and inputs from stakeholders.

3.1 Plan Overview
The Integrated Logistics Plan outlines interventions in the short-medium (2-5 years)
term as well as the long term (5-10 years). It includes 50 interventions across the 6
policy levers/ strategic themes to address issues and development requirements in
the logistics sector in the State.

The exhibit below provides a break-up of the interventions by policy levers/ strategic
themes as well as timeframes.




    Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023       Page 30 of 148
           Exhibit 1: Plan interventions across policy levers/ strategic themes and timeframes

        Policy Levers/                       No. of                   Interventions by timeframes
       Strategic Themes                  interventions
     (A) Enabling integrated
     and robust logistics
                                                 23
     infrastructure
     development
                                                                                     6
     (B) Promoting
     availability of cost
     effective and high-                          6
     quality logistics
     services
                                                                                                           23
     (C) Creating enabling                                               21
     environment for                              9
     logistics activities
     (D) Inculcating
     resilience      &
     sustainability in                            3
     logistics
     ecosystem                                                              Short Term (0-2 Years)

     (E) Adopting new age                                                   Medium Term (2-5 Years)
     technologies in                              6
     logistics                                                              Long Term (5-10 Years)
     (F) Enabling skill
     development in the                           3
     logistics sector
     Total                                       50


The Plan initiatives and interventions include ones that require investments for
infrastructure creation (trunk infrastructure, terminal infrastructure as well as
required inter-modal connectivity) as well as ones that are focused on enabling
processes, regulations and due coordination.

An initial phase investment outlay of ~Rs. 62,541 Crores10 has presently been
estimated based on the assessment carried out for the identified three (2 EXIM, 1
Domestic) freight corridors and select locations in the State identified through need


10
  The envisaged investment quantum is estimated considering industry benchmarks at 2022 prices excluding the cost of land as
applicable


       Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                                    Page 31 of 148
and gap analysis through stakeholder consultation and secondary data analysis. The
investment outlay will change on addition of interventions as the plan is envisaged
to be updated on rolling basis considering emergence of new trends and
requirements. Further it is also proposed to conduct detailed study of other freight
corridors in the State to identify additional interventions and associated
investments.

With its focus on creation of infrastructure as well as growth of the logistics sector
in the State, the Plan is expected to contribute to creation of1.40-1.60 lakh direct
and indirect jobs opportunities in the State.

Notably, the investment envisaged for implementation of the Plan is expected to be
mobilised with involvement of the private sector as well as involvement and support
of the Central Government.

Accordingly, effective implementation of the Plan initiatives would necessarily
require coordinated working across State and Central Government Department(s)
and agencies. In this context, a subsequent section outlines the proposed
institutional mechanism for implementation of the Plan, including with respect to
required coordination and follow-up for implementation of such initiatives and
interventions.

To operationalize the first set of initiatives identified in the plan, the mechanism for
evaluation and disbursement of fiscal incentives along with obtaining project
approvals through single window clearance will be applicable as outlined in the Tamil
Nadu Logistics Policy.




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023          Page 32 of 148
3.2 Logistics Plan/List of Interventions
(A) Enabling integrated and robust logistics infrastructure development

A(I) Enabling synchronized planning for logistics infrastructure through a defined
     coordinated mechanism

 S. No.                  1.

                         The following additional layers will also be mapped on the GIS portal (State
                         Master Plan) being formulated under PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan:
                              Minor Ports
                              Under agriculture - regulated markets and primary processing centers
 Measures to be
                              State warehousing and storage facilities
 taken
                              Truck terminals
                              Skill Development Centers and Driver Training Institutes
                         In the medium term, the endeavour would be to also map private sector
                         warehousing facilities (Refer intervention 3.3)

                         No. of additional layers mapped on the Geographic Information System (GIS)
 Outcome/KPI             Portal developed by Bhaskaracharya National Institute for Space Applications
                         and Geo-informatics (BISAG – N)

 Investment
                         Not applicable
 quantum

                         Primary: Highways and Minor Ports Department (Tamil Nadu Maritime Board),
                         Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Cooperation, Food and
                         Consumer Protection Department (Tamil Nadu Warehousing Corporation),
                         Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department, Housing and Urban
 Stakeholder             Development Department, State Transport Department, Labour Welfare and
                         Skill Development Department

                         Secondary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
                         (TIDCO)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 33 of 148
S. No.                  2.

                        Inter-ministerial/    departmental     coordination    mechanism     will    be
                        institutionalised to enable integrated planning for all transport and logistics
                        projects of value equal to or greater than 50 crores.
Measures to be
                        The Network Planning Group (NPG) would be responsible for operationalizing
taken
                        the proposed mechanism for inter-ministerial/ departmental coordination.
                        TIDCO will prepare the detailed guidelines/ processes on project appraisal
                        mechanism.

Outcome/KPI             Establishment of institutional structure and process

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Network Planning Group, Industries, Investment Promotion and
Stakeholder
                        Commerce Department (TIDCO)




  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                         Page 34 of 148
A(II)   Identifying and resolving existing connectivity bottlenecks and development of new
    infrastructure

S. No.                3.

                      Improve/ develop/ fast-track road connectivity for industrial agriculture fisheries
                      and animal husbandry clusters:
                           •    Improve intersections between major highways and roads connecting
                                industrial clusters using measures such as slip lanes, traffic signals,
                                rotary, flyover etc.
                                     o Improvement for the Hosur (SIPCOT) industrial cluster to be
                                     prioritized
                           •    Improvements on following industrial clusters to be prioritized:
                                     o    Oragadam (SIPCOT)
Measures to be
taken                                o    Sriperumbudur (SIPCOT)
                                     o    Irungattukottai (SIPCOT)
                      On a periodic basis, SIPCOT/ TANSIDCO/ TIDCO/ Agriculture and Farmers
                      Welfare Department to identify the road connectivity improvement/
                      development requirement for industrial and agricultural clusters to recommend
                      to the NPG.
                      For implementation of identified projects, funding and financial assistance under
                      ongoing programmes such as the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure
                      Development Programme, Tamil Nadu Investment Promotion Programme, and
                      Industrial Ecosystem Fund (IEF) can be leveraged, as applicable.

Outcome/KPI           No. of projects implemented from the identified pipeline of projects

                      Rs. 5 – 10 Crore: Improvement of intersection at Hosur Industrial zone
Investment
quantum               Rs. 70-100 Crore: Improvement of first mile/last mile connectivity at Oragadam,
                      Sriperumbudur & Irungattukottai

                      Primary: Highways and Minor Ports Department, Municipal Administration and
                      Water Supply Department, Housing and Urban Development Department, Rural
                      Development and Panchayat Raj Department, Indian Railways, Animal
Stakeholder           Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries Department
                      Secondary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
                      (SIPCOT, TIDCO), MSME Department, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
                      Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 35 of 148
S. No.                4.

                      Improve/ develop/ fast-track rail connectivity for industrial and agriculture
                      clusters:
                           o    Implement Guduvancheri- Oragadam- Sriperumbudur- Avadi rail
                                connectivity project through fast tracking of land acquisition
Measures to be        On a periodic basis, SIPCOT/ TANSIDCO/ TIDCO/ Agriculture and Farmers
taken                 Welfare Department to identify the rail connectivity improvement/ development
                      requirement for industrial and agriculture clusters to recommend to the NPG.
                      For implementation of identified projects, funding and financial assistance under
                      ongoing programmes such as the Tamil Nadu Investment Promotion Programme
                      can be leveraged, as applicable.

Outcome/KPI           No. of projects implemented from the identified pipeline of projects

Investment
                      Rs. 550 – 700 Crore
quantum

                      Primary: Indian Railways

Stakeholder           Secondary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
                      (SIPCOT, TIDCO), MSME Department, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
                      Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 36 of 148
S. No.                 5.

                       Improve/ develop/ fast-track road connectivity (including first and last mile) for
                       logistics terminals/infrastructure (Seaport) and key economic zones
                       Phase 1
                            o    Southern port access road project (4 laning of road from Vallur
                                 Junction (TPP road) to Kamarajar Port
                            o    NH45-A connecting Cuddalore port
                            o    Ennore-Manali road project
                            o    Chennai Port – Maduravoyal Expressway
                            o    Chennai Peripheral Ring Road (Package 1: Ennore Port to Thatchur)
                       Phase-2
Measures to be
taken                       o    Chennai peripheral ring road to connect Kanchipuram and
                                 Chengalpattu industrial clusters to Ennore and Katupalli Ports
                                 (Complete package), Chennai-Trichy-Tuticorin expressway* &
                                 Coimbatore Karur expressway*
                       Additionally, undertake prefeasibility for extension of elevated corridor from
                       Maduravoyal to Sriperumbudur. On a periodic basis, Major Port Authorities,
                       Tamil Nadu Maritime Board/Minor Port Operators will consider user inputs and
                       identify the connectivity improvement/ development requirement for seaports
                       and associated logistics infrastructure to recommend to the NPG.
                       For implementation of identified projects, funding and financial assistance
                       under ongoing programmes such as the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure
                       Development Programme and Industrial Ecosystem Fund (IEF) can be
                       leveraged, as applicable.

Outcome/KPI            No of projects implemented from the identified pipeline of projects

Investment             Rs. 22,000 Crore (Phase 1: 12,000 Crore and Phase 2: 10,000 Crore)
quantum                * Investment quantum has not been accounted due to project being in nascent stage

                       Primary: Highways and Minor Ports Department; National Highways Authority
                       of India (NHAI), Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department,
                       Housing and Urban Development Department, Rural Development and
Stakeholder            Panchayat Raj Department
                       Secondary: Major Port Authorities, Highways and Minor Ports Department
                       (Tamil Nadu Maritime Board)/Minor Port Operators




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 37 of 148
S. No.                  6.

                        Improve/ develop/ fast-track road connectivity (including first and last mile) for
                        logistics terminals/infrastructure (Airport)
                        Fast track road connectivity improvement for air cargo complex
                             o   Chengalpattu to Tambaram elevated corridor
                             o   Feasibility for Meenambakkam to Tambaram elevated corridor
                             o   Extension of Chennai Bangalore Expressway project (CBIC) to
Measures to be                   Meenambakkam *
taken
                        On a periodic basis, Airports Authority of India/ Airport Operators, Highways
                        and Minor Ports Department, NHAI will consider user inputs and identify the
                        connectivity improvement/ development requirement for air cargo terminals/
                        infrastructure to recommend to the NPG.
                        For implementation of identified projects, funding and financial assistance
                        under ongoing programmes such as the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure
                        Development Programme and Industrial Ecosystem Fund (IEF) can be
                        leveraged, as applicable.

Outcome/KPI             No of projects implemented from the identified pipeline of projects

Investment              Rs. 4,000 – 6,000 Crore
quantum                 *Investment quantum has not been accounted due to project being in nascent stage

                        Primary: Highways and Minor Ports Department; National Highways Authority
                        of India (NHAI), Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department,
Stakeholder             Housing and Urban Development Department, Rural Development and
                        Panchayat Raj Department
                        Secondary: Airports Authority of India/Airport Operators




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 38 of 148
S. No.                  7.

                        Fast track rail connectivity for seaports
                             o    Katupalli port
Measures to be
taken                        o    Cuddalore Port
                        The rail connectivity requirements for seaports in the state should be assessed
                        by port authorities and operators periodically for recommendation to NPG

Outcome/KPI             No of projects implemented from the identified pipeline of projects

Investment
                        Rs. 1,000 Crore
quantum

                        Primary: Indian Railways
Stakeholder             Secondary: Major Port Authorities, Department of Highways and Minor Ports
                        (Tamil Nadu Maritime Board)/Minor Port Operators,




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 39 of 148
S. No.                  8.

                        Improve/ develop/ fast-track road connectivity (including first and last mile) for
                        rail logistics terminals/infrastructure (Good sheds)
                        •    Prioritise improvement of first and last mile road connectivity to the
                             following railway goods sheds:
                             o    Thanjavur
                             o    Walajabad
                             o    Melpakkam
Measures to be               o    Ariyalur
taken
                             o    Dindigul
                        On a periodic basis, Indian Railways, Highways and Minor Ports Department and
                        NHAI will consider user inputs and identify the connectivity improvement/
                        development requirement for rail logistics terminals/goods sheds to
                        recommend to the NPG.
                        For implementation of identified projects, funding and financial assistance
                        under ongoing programmes such as the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure
                        Development Programme and Industrial Ecosystem Fund (IEF) can be
                        leveraged, as applicable.

Outcome/KPI             No of projects implemented from the identified pipeline of projects

Investment
                        Rs. 70 - 90 Crore
quantum

                        Primary: Highways and Minor Ports Department; National Highways Authority
                        of India (NHAI), Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department,
Stakeholder             Housing and Urban Development Department, Rural Development and
                        Panchayat Raj Department, Indian Railways (for development on railway land)
                        Secondary: Indian Railways (for identification of requirements)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 40 of 148
S. No.                 9.

                       Earmark government land/ parcels, minimum 50 acres, for development of
                       logistics facilities including logistics parks, warehousing clusters and truck
                       terminals among others at strategic locations i.e. near existing industrial
                       clusters and across the alignment of CKIC and CBIC Phase 2 in the State.
                       Potential regions for the development of logistics parks and/ or warehousing
Measures to be         clusters, requiring feasibility assessment are:
taken
                       Phase 1: Coimbatore, Tuticorin
                       Phase 2: Hosur, Salem, Trichy, Madurai, Perambalur/Ariyalur
                       Feasibility studies for development of logistics facilities at the afore-mentioned
                       regions will be undertaken by Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation
                       (TIDCO)

                       •    Area of land earmarked for development of logistics facilities
Outcome/KPI
                       •    No. of regions where land parcels have been identified

Investment
                       Rs. 2,700 Crore (Phase 1:1,200 Crore and Phase 2: 1,500 Crore)
quantum

                       Primary: Revenue and Disaster Management Department, Industries,
                       Investment Promotion and Commerce Department (TIDCO), Municipal
Stakeholder
                       Administration and Water Supply Department, Housing and Urban
                       Development Department, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                         Page 41 of 148
S. No.                  10.

                        In order to modernise existing warehousing assets, enhance utilisation and
                        efficiency, Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection Department (CF&CPD)
                        will leverage private sector capability.
                        CF&CPD will undertake:
                        •     Identification of warehousing assets requiring modernisation, upgradation
                              and/ or management and operations by private sector players

Measures to be          •     Assessment of suitability of various structures/ models for modernisation/
taken                         upgradation/ operations and management considering factors that will
                              inter alia include:
                              o   Private sector efficiencies to be brought in O&M of assets
                              o   Land resource optimisation through redevelopment/ modernisation/
                                  plug & play model
                              o   Revenue and utilisation enhancement potential
                              o   Value creation from CF&CPD perspective

                        •     % Increase in the capacity/utilisation of warehousing assets
Outcome/KPI             •     No. of warehousing assets modernised/            upgraded/operated      and
                              maintained through private participation

Investment
                        Rs. 40 – 70 Crore
quantum

                        Primary: Co-operation, Food and Consumer Protection Department (Tamil
                        Nadu Warehousing Corporation)
Stakeholder
                        Secondary: Central Warehousing Corporation (shareholder in Tamil Nadu
                        Warehousing Corporation (TNWC))




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 42 of 148
S. No.                  11.

                        The Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department (TIDCO) in
                        coordination with the Indian Railways will assess potential locations for
                        development of multimodal cargo terminals through modernisation of existing
                        Goods Sheds and/ or greenfield development, by private participation.
                        The models prescribed under Master Circular for Gati Shakti Multimodal Cargo
                        Terminals dated 15th December 2021 issued by the Ministry of Railways, or any
                        superseding policies, will be leveraged to undertake these developments.
                        The GoTN may provide support through provision of right of way, government
                        land (as per extant policy/regulations) for development of common user
Measures to be
                        terminal logistics facilities such as warehousing, handling and material
taken
                        management area etc.
                        Potential locations for undertaking feasibility study for development of
                        multimodal cargo terminals:
                        Phase 1: Milavittan, Ariyalur, Hosur, Melpakkam, Walajabad
                        Phase 2: Madurai, Salem, Tiruvallur, Sriperumbudur
                        Further in order to encourage rail cargo and promote multimodal terminals in
                        the state, Indian Railways and GoTN will fast track the development of private
                        freight terminal (PFT) at Ingur.

                        •     No of Goods Sheds modernised to multimodal cargo terminals
Outcome/KPI
                        •     No of Greenfield multimodal cargo terminals developed

Investment
                        Rs. 100 – 120 Crore (Phase 1: 60-70 Crore and Phase 2: 40-50 Crore)
quantum

                        Primary: Indian Railways, Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce
Stakeholder
                        Department (TIDCO)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 43 of 148
S. No.                  12.

                        Truck lay byes including basic amenities will be developed by the Highways and
                        Minor Ports Department and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) at
                        designated locations on the major highways/ road corridors.
                        Key corridors that will be prioritised for development of truck lay byes are:
                        Phase 1
Measures to be          •     Hosur to Chennai
taken
                        •     Coimbatore to Tuticorin via Madurai
                        •     Hosur to Coimbatore
                        Phase 2
                        •     Coimbatore to Chennai
                        •     Chennai to Kanyakumari

Outcome/KPI             •     No. of truck lay byes developed along the highways

Investment
                        Rs. 70 – 100 Crore (Phase 1: 40-50 Crore and Phase 2: 30-40 Crore)
quantum

                        Primary: NHAI, Highways and Minor Ports Department

Stakeholder             Secondary: Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department, Housing
                        and Urban Development Department, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj
                        Department, Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                         Page 44 of 148
S. No.                  13.

                        Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department will fast track the development
                        of primary processing centres (PPCs) in the clusters/ districts with high
                        horticulture produce.
                        Following districts to be prioritized for development of Primary Processing
                        Centers (PPCs):
                              •   Salem
                              •   Erode
Measures to be
taken                         •   Cuddalore
                              •   Tiruvallur
                              •   Tiruvannamalai
                              •   Namakkal
                        The Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department considering the inputs of the
                        stakeholders/ users including the Farmer Producer Organisations and
                        Agriculture Cooperatives will identify the locations for development of PPCs

Outcome/KPI             No. of PPCs developed

Investment
                        Rs. 150 - 200 Crore
quantum

Stakeholder             Primary: Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                     Page 45 of 148
S. No.                  14.

                        Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department in coordination with Tamil Nadu
                        Cooperative Marketing Federation, will on pilot basis assess the feasibility of
                        developing solar based multi-commodity cold storage facilities at strategic
                        locations.
                        Following districts may be considered for assessing feasibility of setting up
                        such facilities in the first instance:
                        •     Namakkal
Measures to be
taken                   •     Krishnagiri
                        •     Dharmapuri
                        •     Salem
                        •     Dindigul
                        The locations for undertaking feasibility study will be identified by the
                        Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department in consultation with the FPOs,
                        Agriculture Cooperatives and Tamil Nadu Cooperative Marketing Federation.

                        •     No. of feasibility studies undertaken
Outcome/KPI
                        •     Pilot projects implemented

Investment
                        Rs. 130 to 150 Crore
quantum

Stakeholder             Primary: Agriculture and Farmer’s Welfare Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 46 of 148
S. No.                  15.

                        Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department will undertake
                        studies for identification and feasibility assessment for development of
                        dedicated/ high utilisation rail freight corridors.
Measures to be
taken                   Potential routes for development of such corridors will inter alia include:
                        •     Chennai-Tuticorin
                        •     Chennai-Bengaluru

                        •     Identification of routes and feasibility assessment for dedicated rail freight
Outcome/KPI
                              corridors

Investment
                        Rs. 21,000 - 25,000 Crore
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
Stakeholder             (TIDCO)
                        Secondary: Indian Railways




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                            Page 47 of 148
S. No.                  16.

                      ICD/ CFS/ AFS/ FTWZ operators may submit proposals to Industries,
                      Investment Promotion and Commerce Department for capacity expansion or
                      development of new ICDs/ CFSs/ AFSs/ FTWZs along with techno-economic
Measures      to   be feasibility studies.
taken
                        On a case-to-case basis, Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce
                        Department will facilitate expansion/ development of logistics facilities based
                        on the proposal received from the logistics operators.

Outcome/KPI             •     New ICD/ CFS/ AFS/ FTWZ capacity created in the state

Investment
                        Rs. 250 to 300 Cr (Private Investment)
quantum

                        Primary: ICD/CFS/AFS/FTWZ operators, Industries, Investment Promotion and
Stakeholder             Commerce Department (TIDCO)
                        Secondary: Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 48 of 148
S. No.                  17.

                        The Tamil Nadu Maritime Board (TNMB) should undertake the capacity
                        expansion project for Cuddalore Port to increase the cargo handling capacity
                        from 0.37 MTPA to 5.68 MTPA. Further, considering the regional development
                        requirements and industry demand over the long term, TNMB will evaluate and
                        pursue further expansion through private participation.
Measures to be
taken                   To encourage the fisheries sector in the state, the TNMB should evaluate the
                        need for expansion/ modernisation of existing fishing harbours and
                        development of new fishing harbours in the State. Financial assistance
                        available under Government of India’s schemes such as the Pradhan Manttri
                        Matsya Sampada Yojna (PMMSY) can be leveraged for implementation of such
                        projects as applicable.

                        •     Completion of Cuddalore Port expansion project
                        •     Expansion of Cuddalore Port on PPP
Outcome/KPI
                        •     No. of expansion/ modernisation projects for fishing harbours undertaken
                        •     No. of greenfield fishing harbours developed

Investment              Rs. 500 to 800 Crore (Government Investment)
quantum                 Rs. 3,000 to 3,500 Crore (Cuddalore Expansion through PPP)

                        Primary: Tamil Nadu Maritime Board
Stakeholder             Secondary: Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry
                        and Dairying, Government of India




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 49 of 148
S. No.                  18.

                        Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department will earmark
                        area for development of truck terminal/ parking yard within the allocated open
                        space reservation in upcoming industrial parks/ estates/ clusters in the State
                        accommodating manufacturing & processing units.
Measures to be          A minimum of 5% of the Open Space Reservation (OSR) would be earmarked
taken                   for development of truck terminal/ parking. The development in OSR will be
                        limited to truck parking without construction of a structure.
                        Necessary clauses will be amended in the Tamil Nadu Combined Building Rules



                        •     No. of new industrial parks/estates/clusters having dedicated area
Outcome/KPI
                              reserved for logistics activities

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department (TIDCO
Stakeholder             /SIPCOT), Housing and Urban Development Department, Municipal
                        Administration and Water Supply Department, MSME Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 50 of 148
S. No.                  19.

                        The Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department will identify
Measures to be
                        the unutilised factory sheds within existing industrial parks/ estates/ clusters
taken
                        in the State and make them available for logistics activities, wherever feasible.

Outcome/KPI             •     No of unutilised factory sheds converted to logistics facilities

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department (TIDCO
Stakeholder
                        / TANSIDCO / SIPCOT)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                            Page 51 of 148
S. No.                  20.

                        AAI/ Airport Operator will assess the feasibility for expansion of existing air
                        cargo complexes/ development of air-cargo complexes at existing airports.
                        Further, Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department will
                        assess feasibility for development of greenfield airports with cargo complexes.
Measures to be
taken                   Potential locations for the development of greenfield air cargo complex and
                        augmentation of air cargo complexes are:
                        •     Chennai – feasibility for second airport cargo complex
                        •     Tuticorin – feasibility for cargo complex

Outcome/KPI             •     Increase in air cargo capacity available within the State

Investment
                        Rs. 150 to 180 Crore
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department –
Stakeholder             TIDCO (For Green field airports), Airport Authority of India/Airport Operator
                        (for brown field projects)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 52 of 148
S. No.                  21.

                        Housing and Urban Development Department in coordination with relevant
                        Urban/ Rural Local Bodies, will undertake the following key initiatives,
                        preferably through private participation:
                        •     Assess the requirement and undertake upgradation of existing truck
                              terminals in urban and peri-urban areas. Potential locations to be
Measures to be                prioritised in this respect are:
taken
                              o   Manjambakkam, Chennai
                              o   Madhavaram, Chennai
                        The Housing and Urban Development Department will continuously monitor
                        and identify the need of upgrading of truck terminals and parking facilities in
                        the state considering user inputs.

Outcome/KPI             •     No of truck terminals upgraded

Investment
                        Rs. 30 - 50 Cr
quantum

                        Primary: Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department, Housing and
Stakeholder             Urban Development Department, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj
                        Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 53 of 148
S. No.                  22.

                        Housing and Urban Development Department in coordination with relevant
                        Urban/ Rural Local Bodies, will undertake the following key initiatives,
                        preferably through private participation:
                        •     Assess the requirement and undertake development of new truck terminals
                              in peri-urban areas of cities with significant cargo movement.
Measures to be          •     Potential location to be prioritized for green field development of truck
taken                         terminals are:
                              o   Madurai
                              o   Coimbatore
                              o   Tiruchirappalli
                              o   Hosur

Outcome/KPI             •     No. of greenfield truck terminals developed

Investment
                        Rs. 70 - 100 Crore
quantum

                        Primary: Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department, Housing and
Stakeholder             Urban Development Department, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj
                        Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 54 of 148
A(III) Development of logistics plan for major cities and metropolitan areas

S. No.                  23.

                        Greater Chennai Corporation and Coimbatore District Collector will formulate
                        City/ Metropolitan Region Logistics Master Plans for Chennai and Coimbatore
                        respectively to plan the development of following city/ metropolitan region
                        logistics infrastructure, among others as required:
                        •     Storage/ consolidation/ distribution centres
                        •     Fulfilment centres for e-commerce
                        •     Bypasses/ ring roads
                        •     Common user parcel delivery terminals
                        •     Parking and unloading zones
                        •     Charging infrastructure along priority corridors
Measures to be          Subsequently, city logistics master plan will be prepared for Hosur, Madurai
taken                   and Tiruchirappalli city under Phase-2 and Salem, Tirunelvelli, Erode, Vellore
                        and Tuticorin in Phase -3
                        Further, the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department may
                        identify other cities/ urban areas that need to form a city/ metropolitan region
                        logistics master plan.
                        The GoTN will promote use of electric vehicles and green fuel technologies –
                        including ‘Green Hydrogen’, for freight movement in the State. GoTN will
                        encourage e-commerce and delivery companies to transition to fleet of
                        electric/ green fuel commercial vehicles. Fleet of electric vehicles would
                        receive incentives listed under Tamil Nadu E-Vehicle Policy, 2019 or any
                        superseding policy, as applicable. To this end, the City/ Metropolitan Regional
                        Logistics Master Plans would account for development of charging
                        infrastructure for electric freight vehicles on priority corridors/ strategic
                        locations.

                        •     No. of city/ metropolitan region logistics master plan prepared
Outcome/KPI
                        •     No. of interventions implemented from the master plan

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department, Housing and
Stakeholder
                        Urban Development Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 55 of 148
(B) Promoting availability of cost-effective and high-quality services

B(I)  Enabling availability of cost-effective logistics services by supporting
   market development

S. No.                  24.

                        TIDCO to evaluate potential new routes for container rail services considering
                        the inputs and proposals from Container Train Operators and encourage the
                        initial pilot runs for a pre-defined period from a market development
                        perspective.
Measures to be          The potential routes that will be considered for container rail services inter alia
taken                   include:
                        •     Madurai to Vapi-Surat and extension to Tuticorin
                        •     Ahmedabad to Chennai
                        •     Coimbatore to Tuticorin

Outcome/KPI             No. of new routes commenced for container rail service

Investment
                        Rs. 50 – 90 Crore
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
Stakeholder             (TIDCO), Indian Railways
                        Secondary: Container Train Operators




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 56 of 148
S. No.                 25.

                       TIDCO/ Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department to evaluate potential
                       routes for kisan rail services respectively and encourage the initial pilot runs
                       from a market development perspective.
                       The potential routes that will be considered for kisan rail services inter alia
                       include routes to major consumption markets such as Delhi, Mumbai and
                       Kolkata from the following locations:
                       •     Krishnagiri
Measures to be         •     Theni
taken
                       •     Namakkal
                       •     Dharmapuri
                       •     Salem
                       •     Thanjavur
                       •     Trichy
                       •     Madurai

Outcome/KPI            •     No. of new routes commenced for kisan rail service

Investment
                       Rs. 30 – 50 Crore
quantum

                       Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
Stakeholder            (TIDCO), Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Indian Railways
                       Secondary: Indian Railways




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 57 of 148
S. No.                  26.

                        The Highways and Minor Port Department will assess the feasibility for
                        development of coastal shipping routes and encourage the initial pilot runs
                        from a market development perspective.
                        Further, logistics service providers may also undertake market/ feasibility
Measures to be          studies and submit to Tamil Nadu Maritime Board (TNMB) for consideration.
taken
                        The key routes that will be considered in this respect will include:
                        •     Movement between Maharashtra/ Gujarat and Tamil Nadu (Coimbatore/
                              Tirupur/ Dindigul)
                        •     RO-RO Automobile movements between Chennai and Mumbai

Outcome/KPI             •     No. of coastal shipping routes commenced

Investment
                        Rs. 100 – 130 Crore
quantum

                        Primary: Highways and Minor Port Department (Tamil Nadu Maritime Board)
Stakeholder             Major Port Authorities
                        Secondary: Shipping companies and Freight forwarders




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 58 of 148
S. No.                  27.

                        Port Authorities and Airports Authority of India/ Airport Operators in the state
                        will periodically submit dwell time reports to the NPG with underlying concerns
Measures to be          and issues.
taken                   The NPG in consultation with the relevant stakeholders will engage with CBIC/
                        Port Authorities/ Airport Authority/ Operator to take appropriate steps for
                        optimizing the dwell time at airports and seaports in the State.

Outcome/KPI             •     Reduction of dwell time

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: NPG
Stakeholder             Secondary: Port Authorities/ Operator, Airport Authority of India/Airport
                        Operator, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 59 of 148
B(II)    Provision of high-quality contemporary services to users

S. No.                  28

                        The Transport Department will make a one-time reimbursement of 100% of (1)
                        vehicle registration charges in the State, and (2) road tax for 1 year for the
                        reefer trucks including retrofitting of capacity > 15 MT by logistics/ trucking
                        companies & enterprises registered in Tamil Nadu.

Measures to be          The first 500 reefer trucks registered in the State during the policy period will
taken                   be applicable to avail incentive.
                        A separate category will be created by the transport department for
                        registration of reefer vehicle to have a data base on the reefer trucks operating
                        in Tamil Nadu.



Outcome/KPI                  •    New capacity of reefer vehicles registered in the state

                        Primary: Transport Department
                        Secondary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department,
                        MSME Department
Stakeholder                  •    TIDCO – Preparation of guidelines,
                             •    If investment is > 50 Crore, Guidance Tamil Nadu for evaluation of
                                  applications and SIPCOT for incentive disbursement
                             •    If investment is < 50 Crore, FaMe TN for evaluation of applications and
                                  ICDIC for incentive disbursement




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                             Page 60 of 148
S. No.                  29.

                        The GoTN will encourage logistics companies and service providers towards
                        adoption of quality management system (Integrated management system
Measures to be          IMS/ISO 9001/ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001/SA 8000/any other logistics related
taken                   quality certification) in their logistics facilities.



Outcome/KPI                   •   No. of logistics service providers attaining quality certifications

Investment
                        Not Applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department, MSME
Stakeholder             Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                            Page 61 of 148
(C) Creating an enabling environment for logistics activities

C(I)     Developing single window clearance systems

S. No.                  30.

                        A grievance redressal mechanism for resolution of grievances of logistics
                        sector operators will be institutionalised.
Measures to be
taken                   The extension of Biz Buddy Portal of Tamil Nadu's Guidance Bureau for
                        Industries will be explored for this purpose. A cell will be formed in Guidance
                        Department with additional manpower for this purpose.

Outcome/KPI                   •   Operationalisation of the grievance redressal mechanism

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
Stakeholder             (Guidance Tamil Nadu)
                        Secondary: NPG, Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 62 of 148
S. No.                  31.

                        The Department of Transport will set-up a single window clearance system for
Measures to be          movement of project cargo and over dimensional cargo in the State.
taken                   It will endeavour to establish maximum moving dimensions of key routes for
                        this purpose.

Outcome/KPI             •     Operationalisation of single window system

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Highways and Minor ports Department

Stakeholder             Secondary: Tamil Nadu State Police, Transport Department, Tamil Nadu
                        Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd. (TANGEDCO), Indian Railways,
                        NHAI




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                     Page 63 of 148
S. No.                  32.

                        The existing single window portal operated under the aegis of Guidance TN and
Measures to be
                        FaMe TN will be extended to logistics activities to secure all business-related
taken
                        approvals/clearances/NOCs etc in the State to enhance ease of doing business.

                        •     Integration of logistics activities/clearance requirement to existing single
Outcome/KPI
                              window portal

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary:
                              •   If investment is > 50 Crore, Guidance Tamil Nadu will provide single
                                  window clearance
Stakeholder                   •   If investment is < 50 Crore, FaMe TN will provide single window
                                  clearance
                        Secondary: Industries Investment Promotion & Commerce Department, MSME
                        Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 64 of 148
C(II) Providing industry status and extending incentives applicable for industry in
      logistics sector

 S. No.                  33.

                         Based on the location of existing/ proposed clusters, Industries, Investment
                         Promotion and Commerce Department and Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
                         Department will identify and submit to NPG, the regions/ locations for
                         development of logistics facilities such as warehouses, logistics parks, truck
                         terminals etc.
 Measures      to   be The NPG will coordinate with the relevant urban/ rural local bodies/ planning
 taken                 authorities for earmarking of land for setting up of logistics facilities at such
                       locations during the master planning phase.
                         The Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department will
                         integrate change in land use related approvals/ clearances process for
                         development of logistics infrastructure in the existing single window clearance
                         system.

 Outcome/KPI             •     Area earmarked in land use plans for development of logistics facilities

 Investment
                         Not Applicable
 quantum

                         Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
                         (TIDCO), Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department
 Stakeholder             Secondary: Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply,
                         Housing and Urban development Department (DTCP and CMDA), Rural
                         development and Panchayat Raj Department




    Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 65 of 148
S. No.                  34.

                        The GoTN, through Housing and Urban Development Department, will re-
                        classify the warehouse segment to industries category to facilitate ease of
                        doing business in the State. GoTN will also mandate existing warehouse
                        developers to update their developments for streamlining registration process
                        under the new sub-category under Industries category within a defined period
                        of time.
Measures to be
taken                   Necessary steps will be taken to increase the warehousing establishment height
                        from 18.3 m to 24m.
                        The Housing and Urban Development Department will provide the information
                        related to warehouses registered under the new category to Industries,
                        Investment Promotion and Commerce Department for development of a
                        database of warehouses.

                        •     Issue of relevant notification
Outcome/KPI             •     No. of warehouses registered under the new category
                        •     Development of warehouse database

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Housing and Urban Development Department (Directorate of Town
                        and Country Planning and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority),
Stakeholder             Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply
                        Secondary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
                        (TIDCO)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 66 of 148
S. No.                  35.

                        To encourage development of warehousing and cold chain developers,
                        Department of Industries will extend the incentives and benefits applicable
                        under section 17 of Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy, 2021 to the categories
                        defined as per extant Harmonized master list of DOE:
                        •     Multi-modal Logistics Park comprising Inland Container Depots (ICD) with a
                              minimum investment of Rs.50 Cr and minimum area of 10 acre and/or,
Measures to be          •     Cold Chain Facility with a minimum investment of Rs. 10 crore and
taken                         minimum area of 15,000 sq. ft,
                        •     Warehousing Facility with a minimum investment of Rs. 15 crore and
                              minimum area of 75,000 sq. ft.
                        The details of the applicable incentives have been mentioned separately in the
                        TN Logistics Policy. The procedure of sanctioning of incentives and sanctioning
                        authorities as laid out in the Industrial Policy,2021 will be applicable for Special
                        incentives to Logistics and Warehousing categories defined above,

                        •     No. of Logistics Developers attaining incentives for development of
Outcome/KPI
                              facilities as per minimum threshold defined by DOE

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

Stakeholder             Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                            Page 67 of 148
S. No.                  36.

                        The GoTN has already permitted 24x7 operations of facilities as per the latest
                        Government Order on Shop and Establishments Act,1947.
Measures to be
                        This provision will also be applicable to operations of logistics and warehousing
taken
                        facilities in the State.



Outcome/KPI             •     24*7 operations of logistics and warehousing facilities

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Tamil Nadu State Police, Labour Welfare and Skill Development
Stakeholder
                        Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                         Page 68 of 148
S. No.                  37.

                        Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department will waive off the
Measures to be          sub-leasing charges charged by the government industrial estates for
taken                   warehouses development or built to suit practices within industrial parks/
                        estates/ clusters in the state.

Outcome/KPI             •     Issue of notification on waiving off sub-leasing charges

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
Stakeholder
                        (SIPCOT, TIDCO, TANSIDCO)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 69 of 148
C(III) Institutionalizing “Logistics Council” for data driven decision making

S. No.                  38.

                        Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department will establish a
                        ‘Logistics Council’ for logistics sector in the State that will act as an advisory
                        group to TIDCO/Nodal Agency and facilitate coordination with following trade
                        & industry experts to understand issues, gaps and future requirements.
                              •   Industry & Trade Associations
Measures to be
taken                         •   Logistics Service Providers, Operators & Developers
                              •   Government Agencies- Logistics Oriented
                        The Logistics Council will periodically (quarterly) undertake interactions with
                        relevant stakeholders and suggest the Nodal Agency with findings, challenges
                        and requirements.

Outcome/KPI             •     Establishment of the ‘Logistics Council’

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
Stakeholder
                        (TIDCO)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 70 of 148
(D) Inculcating resilience and sustainability in the logistics system

D(I) Promoting modal shift to environment friendly modes of transport and
     adoption of environment friendly fuels/technology

S. No.                  39.

                        Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department in co-ordination
Measures to be          with Tamil Nadu Maritime Board will prepare guidelines for scrutinizing of
taken                   proposals received from operators for commencing coastal shipping services
                        under market development approach.

Outcome/KPI             •     Increase in volume of coastal cargo in the State

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
Stakeholder
                        (TIDCO), Tamil Nadu Maritime Board




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                    Page 71 of 148
S. No.                  40.

                        Department of Highways and Minor Ports will undertake feasibility study for
Measures to be          identifying and developing e-Highway corridors on major freight routes in the
taken                   state having significantly high-volume movements on defined origins and
                        destinations.

Outcome/KPI             •     Feasibility assessment of e-Highway Corridors

Investment
                        Rs. 1,000 – 2,000 Crore
quantum

                        Primary: Highways and Minor Ports Department
Stakeholder
                        Secondary: National Highways Authority of India




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                      Page 72 of 148
D(II)    Promoting use of sustainable design through incentivisation

S. No.                  41.

                        GoTN will encourage adoption of sustainable design standards such as Green
Measures to be          infrastructure & solutions for the development of logistics infrastructure by
taken                   obtaining certification under LEED and/or GRIHA systems.



                        •     Number of applications processed towards adoption of sustainable design
Outcome/KPI
                              standards

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Housing and Urban Development Department (Directorate of Town
Stakeholder
                        and Country Planning and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 73 of 148
(E) Adopting new age technologies in logistics

E(I) Promoting technology adoption and innovations

 S. No.                  42.

                         The GoTN will encourage and incentivise logistics service providers having
                         registered offices in Tamil Nadu for technology adoption through provision of
                         fiscal support towards technology adoption cost.
                         The GoTN will provide one-time cash award of 50% of the technology adoption
                         cost, capped to Rs. 1 crore, to 3 applicants annually for adopting modern
                         technologies such as RFID, GPS, IoT, robotics & automation, blockchain,
                         artificial intelligence and data analytics among others that will improve/ enable:
 Measures to be
                         •     Tracking and tracing of cargo:
 taken
                         •     Exchange of information and documentation essential for logistics
                               processes:
                         •     Efficiency improvement and process automation: or
                         •     Quality of service
                         Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department will prepare the
                         guidelines /processes for disbursement of the incentives.

 Outcome/KPI             •     No. of logistics service providers adopting new age technology

                         Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department, MSME
                         Department
                               •   TIDCO – Preparation of guidelines,
                               •   If investment is > 50 Crore, Guidance Tamil Nadu for evaluation of
 Stakeholder
                                   applications and SIPCOT for incentive disbursement
                               •   If investment is < 50 Crore, FaMe TN for evaluation of applications and
                                   ICDIC for incentive disbursement
                         Secondary: Tamil Nadu Information Technology Department




    Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 74 of 148
S. No.                  43.

                        GoTN will promote innovation in logistics sector by providing one time
                        reimbursement of the patent registration fees in India to technology providers,
                        start-ups and other business units developing technology enabled solutions for
                        logistics efficiency improvement.
Measures to be          This reimbursement will be subject to a cap of RS. 25,000 per patent.
taken
                        The incentive will be available to enterprises having registered offices in Tamil
                        Nadu and to the residents of the State.
                        Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department will prepare the
                        guidelines /processes for disbursement of the incentive.

Outcome/KPI             •     Operationalisation of the incentive scheme

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department, MSME
                        Department
                              •   TIDCO – Preparation of guidelines,
                              •   If investment is > 50 Crore, Guidance Tamil Nadu for evaluation of
Stakeholder
                                  applications and SIPCOT for incentive disbursement
                              •   If investment is < 50 Crore, FaMe TN for evaluation of applications and
                                  ICDIC for incentive disbursement
                        Secondary: Tamil Nadu Start-up and Innovation Mission




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 75 of 148
S. No.                  44.

                        The GoTN has formed Tamil Nadu Emerging Sector Seed Fund and TANSEED
                        grant fund under Tamil Nadu Start-Up and Innovation Policy for supporting
Measures to be          start-ups in the state with a corpus of Rs.500 Crore. Start-ups in logistics
taken                   sector will also be eligible to avail this benefit



Outcome/KPI             •     Fund utilised by logistics sector start-ups

Investment
                        Not Applicable
quantum

                        Primary: TIDCO, Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation,
Stakeholder
                        Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                     Page 76 of 148
E(II) Creating tracking and monitoring infrastructure

 S. No.                  45.

                         Chennai and Kamarajar Port Authority will undertake feasibility assessment for
                         technology enabled platform for development of truck ticketing system to
 Measures to be          optimize port gate operations.
 taken
                         The GoTN will facilitate the implementation of the same through provision of
                         land parcel for parking/holding area for trucks.

 Outcome/KPI             •     Feasibility of truck ticketing system

 Investment
                         Not applicable
 quantum

                         Primary: Chennai and Kamarajar Port Authorities,
 Stakeholder             Secondary: Container Terminal Operators, Chennai Metropolitan Development
                         Authority




    Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 77 of 148
S. No.                  46.

                        TIDCO will coordinate with the National Logistics Databank System (NLDS) to
                        promote extension of the tracking infrastructure system to key Exim corridors
                        in the state.
Measures to be
taken                   The Exim corridors to be prioritised in this respect will include:
                        •     Hosur to Chennai Port
                        •     Coimbatore to Tuticorin Port

Outcome/KPI             •     Extension of Logistics Data Bank to Exim corridors in the State

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
Stakeholder             (TIDCO)
                        Secondary: NLDS




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                              Page 78 of 148
E(III)    Technology based interventions for monitoring compliances

 S. No.                  47.

                         The Department of Transport will undertake a study and implement IT based
                         smart enforcement systems and mechanisms through following steps.
                         •     Installation of digital equipment including traffic cameras, weigh-in-motion
                               cameras, RFID readers etc. on major highways/ corridors in a phased
                               manner.
                         •     Key corridors to be prioritized for the installation of the equipment are:

 Measures to be                o   Hosur to Chennai
 taken                         o   Coimbatore to Tuticorin
                               o   Coimbatore to Hosur
                         •     Acceleration and facilitation of integration of E-way bill data with VAHAN,
                               Fast tag, and E-challan system
                         Make available the digital devices/ tools through which the required
                         information (E-way bill data, VAHAN and Fast tag) can be fetched and made
                         available to the enforcement agencies

                         •     Possible options/solutions for implementation of smart enforcement
 Outcome/KPI             •     Implementation of smart enforcement in the state
                         •     Integration of E-way bill data with VAHAN, Fast tag and E-challan system

 Investment
                         Rs. 60 – 70 Crore
 quantum

                         Primary: Transport Department, Tamil Nadu State Police
 Stakeholder             Secondary: Highways and Minor Ports Department, Ministry of Road Transport
                         & Highways, Commercial Taxes and Registration Department




    Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 79 of 148
(F) Enabling skill development in the logistics sector

F I) Initiate courses to skill the workforce across logistics sub-sectors
S. No.                  48.

                        The Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) and Labour Welfare
                        and Skill Development Department will identify skill gaps and undertake the
                        following key initiatives in order to accelerate skill development in the logistics
                        sector of the state:
                        •     Develop course curriculum for high demand job roles with limited
                              availability of formal training in association with Logistics Sector Skill
Measures to be
                              Council and national and state level educational institutions. Amongst
taken
                              other, these will include:
                                  o   Courses on warehousing operations
                                  o   Courses on air cargo terminal operations
                        •     Develop apprenticeship program in association with private sector player
                              to enable practical training and creating employment opportunities.

Outcome/KPI             •     No of new courses initiated to upskill the logistics workforce

Investment              Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation, Logistics Sector Skill
Stakeholder
                        Council; Labour Welfare and Skill Development Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 80 of 148
F II) Upskill and recognize existing logistics workforce
S. No.                  49.

                        The Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) and Labour Welfare
                        and Skill Development Department will undertake the following key initiatives
                        in order to accelerate skill development in the logistics sector of the state:
Measures to be          •     Introduce “Recognition of Prior Learning Programme” in partnership with
taken                         the private sector of workforce engaged in the logistics sector across
                              various job roles.
                        •     Explore providing medical and health insurance to heavy vehicle drivers
                              registered in the State at a nominal price

                        •     Operationalisation of “Recognition of Prior Learning Programme”
Outcome/KPI
                        •     No. of medical and health insurance registered for heavy vehicle drivers

Investment
                        Not applicable
quantum

                        Primary: Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation, Logistics Sector Skill
Stakeholder
                        Council; Labour Welfare and Skill Development Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                         Page 81 of 148
F (III) Involve private sector to skill and create employment opportunities
S. No.                  50.

                        The Department of Transport will undertake assessment of existing training
                        infrastructure for heavy freight vehicle drivers in the State and identify gaps/
                        requirement for development of driver training institutes. The Department will
Measures to be          leverage Institute of Driving Training & Research (IDTR) scheme of the Ministry
taken                   of Road Transport and Highway
                        Further, Labour Welfare and Skill Development Department will develop a
                        logistics labour market information system as a repository of details of
                        accredited logistics sector workforce in the State.

                        •     No. of heavy vehicle driver training institutes in the State
Outcome/KPI
                        •     Operationalization of logistics labour market information system

Investment
                        Rs. 100 – 150 Crore
quantum

                        Primary: Transport Department, Labour Welfare and Skill Development
Stakeholder
                        Department




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                              Page 82 of 148
Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023   Page 83 of 148
4 Institutional Framework and Mechanism
Implementation of the Tamil Nadu Integrated Logistics Plan, 2023 will be
undertaken by leveraging the existing 2-tier institutional framework, comprising an
Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) and a Network Planning Group (NPG),
created for coordinating and facilitating integrated development of the logistics
sector in the State under the PM Gati Shakti initiative.



           Exhibit 2: Institutional framework for implementation of TNLP & TNILP, 2023




4.1 Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS)
A group under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary, GoTN was established vide
G.O. (Ms). No.78, Industries (MIE1) Department, dated 05.04.2022 with Chairman
and Managing Director, TIDCO as the member convener and other members
comprising senior State Government officials and designated Central Government
officials as provided in the following exhibit.



   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                 Page 84 of 148
                 Exhibit 3: Constitution of the Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS)

S.N. Department/Official                                                                       Role
1.        Chief Secretary to Government                                                        Chairman
          Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Home, Prohibition &
2.                                                                      Member
          Excise Department
          Additional Chief               Secretary          to      Government,   Industries
3.                                                                                             Member
          Department
          Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Water Resources
4.                                                                  Member
          Department
          Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Environment,
5.                                                               Member
          Climate Change and Forests Department
          Additional Chief Secretary to Government,                               Municipal
6.                                                                                             Member
          Administration and Water Supply Department
7.        Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Energy Department                          Member
          Principal Secretary to Government, Revenue and Disaster
8.                                                                Member
          Management Department
          Principal Secretary to Government, Highways and Minor Ports
9.                                                                    Member
          Department
          Principal Secretary to Government, Housing and Urban
10.                                                            Member
          Development Department
          Principal Secretary to Government, Tourism, Culture and
11.                                                               Member
          Religious Endowment Department
          Secretary to Government, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
12.                                                                    Member
          Department
          Secretary to Government, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
13.                                                                Member
          Department
          Secretary to Government, Commercial Taxes and Registration
14.                                                                  Member
          Department
15.       Transport Commissioner, Commissionerate of Transport                                 Member
          Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, Tamil Nadu
16.                                                               Member
          Guidance
17.       Chairman, Chennai Port Trust                                                         Member
18.       Chairman and Managing Director, Kamarajar Port Limited                               Member
19.       Chairman, V. O. Chidambaranar (VOC) Port Trust                                       Member
20.       Regional Director, National Highways Authority of India                              Member
21.       Regional Director, Airports Authority of India                                       Member
22.       General Manager, Southern Railways                                                   Member


     Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                         Page 85 of 148
 S.N. Department/Official                                                                 Role
           Development Commissioner, Madras Export Processing Zone
 23.                                                               Member
           (MEPZ)
           Chief Commissioner, Tamil Nadu & Puducherry Goods & Services
 24.                                                                    Member
           Tax (GST) & Central Excise Department
 25.       Chief Commissioner, Chennai Customs Zone                                       Member
 26.       Chief Commissioner, Tiruchirappalli Customs Zone                               Member
 27.       Chief General Manager, Container Corporation of India Limited                  Member
           Chairman and Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Industrial Member -
 28.
           Development Corporation Limited                       Convener


Secretaries of other relevant departments in the State can be co-opted as special
invitees in case subjects related to their departments are to be taken up for
consideration by the EGoS. Further, industry associations can also be invited to
meetings as Special Invitees for EGoS meetings on need basis.



4.2 Network Planning Group (NPG)
A group under the chairmanship of the Chairman & Managing Director, TIDCO was
established as the Network Planning Group with other members comprising State
Government officials and designated Central Government officials as provided in the
following Exhibit.

                        Exhibit 4: Constitution of the Network Planning Group (NPG)

 S.N.      Department/Official                                                         Role

 1.        Chairman & Managing Director, TIDCO                                         Chairperson
           Representative from State Industries Promotion Corporation
 2.                                                                   Member
           of Tamilnadu
           Representative from Tamilnadu Small Industries Corporation
 3.                                                                   Member
           Ltd.
           Representative from Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution
 4.                                                                   Member
           Corporation Limited (TANGEDCO)
 5.        Representative from Highways Department                                     Member
 6.        Representative from Agriculture Directorate                                 Member
 7.        Representative from MEPZ                                                    Member

      Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                    Page 86 of 148
S.N.      Department/Official                                        Role

          Representative from Commissioner of Police (Traffic Planning
8.                                                                     Member
          Department)
          Representative from Chennai Metropolitan Development
9.                                                             Member
          Authority
          Representative from Directorate of Town and Country
10.                                                           Member
          Planning
11. Representative from Tamil Nadu Maritime Board                    Member
12. Representative from Department of Industries & Commerce          Member
          Representative from Department of Agriculture Marketing &
13.                                                                 Member
          Agri Business.
14. Representative from Commercial Taxes Department                  Member
          Representative from Commissionerate of Transport and Road
15.                                                                 Member
          Safety
16. Representative from Tamil Nadu Guidance                          Member
17. Representative from Chennai Port Trust                           Member
18. Representative from Kamarajar Port Limited                       Member
19. Representative from VoC Port                                     Member
20. Representative from National Highways Authority of India         Member
21. Representative from Airport Authority of India                   Member
22. Representative from Southern Railways                            Member
23. Representative from GST & Central Excise Department              Member
24. Representative from Chennai Customs Zone                         Member
25. Representative from Tiruchirappalli Customs Zone                 Member
          Representative from Container Corporation of India Ltd.
26.                                                               Member
          (CONCOR)
27. Representative from Tamil Nadu Warehousing Corporation           Member
28. Representative from Central Warehousing Corporation              Member
          Representative from TN Apex Skill Development Centre for
29.                                                                Member
          Logistics
30. Representative from District Collectorate, Coimbatore            Member
31. Representative from Greater Chennai Corporation                  Member
32. Representative from Geology and Mining Department                Member
33. Representative from Water Resources Department                   Member
34. Representative from Directorate of Environment                   Member


     Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023   Page 87 of 148
 S.N.   Department/Official                                                            Role

 35. Representative from Department of Forests                                         Member
        Representative from Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
 36.                                                              Member
        Sewerage Board
        Representative from Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage
 37.                                                             Member
        Board
        Representative            from      Commissionerate       of   Survey   and
 38.                                                                                   Member
        Settlement
        Representative from Tamil Nadu Disaster Management
 39.                                                       Member
        Authority
 40. Representative from Department of Tourism                                         Member
        Representative from Representative from Archaeological
 41.                                                           Member
        Survey of India
 42. Representative from Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency                                Member


4.3 Technical Support Unit
A unit can also be established under NPG comprising domain and subject matter
experts to provide technical support (TSU) to NPG in implementing and monitoring
initiatives for development of logistics in the State.



4.4 Tamil Nadu Industrial Corporation Limited (TIDCO)
The Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO) is a Government of
Tamil Nadu enterprise that facilitates large industrial and infrastructure projects in
Tamil Nadu involving large investments and significant employment potential.

TIDCO has been nominated as the nodal agency for logistics sector in the State by
the Government, and such will play a key role in implementation of the Tamil Nadu
Logistics Policy and Integrated Logistics Plan, 2023.



4.5 Implementation of the Logistics Policy
The Logistics Policy provides an overarching strategic framework for holistic
development of logistics in the State. Implementation of the Policy interventions on


   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 88 of 148
the ground will be undertaken by TIDCO under the supervision and guidance of the
EGoS.

TIDCO will be responsible for the following key activities with respect to
implementation of the Policy:

       Coordination with various State and Central Government departments and
        agencies for operationalisation of provisions of the Policy

       Monitoring the progress of implementation of provisions of the Policy across
        the identified six themes

       To apprise the EGoS on progress of implementation of policy provisions and
        issues being faced that require intervention

       To implement directions of the EGoS with respect to implementation of the
        Policy and subjects concerning logistics in the state

       Recommending amendments to the policy from time to time considering
        emerging trends, requirements and stakeholder inputs

The EGoS will play a key role in implementation of the Policy by way of:

       Giving directions to any of the State Government departments for
        implementation of the Policy provisions as required

       Reviewing the progress of implementation of Policy provisions across the six
        themes

       Facilitating interactions and enabling coordination with the Ministry of
        Commerce and Industry, Government of India and other Central Government
        Departments

       Undertaking apex level decision making with respect to matters related to the
        Policy and its implementation




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023        Page 89 of 148
4.6 Implementation of Integrated Logistics Plan
The effective and efficient functioning of the logistics eco-system in the State
requires the inter-connected working of a number of agencies, stakeholders and
operators.

The Logistics Plan provides specific actions and initiatives to be taken by various
stakeholders across the short-term, medium-term and long-term. Further, it also
delineates the primary and secondary responsibility for implementation between
various stakeholders i.e. agencies and departments, and provides the Key
Performance Indicators to enable monitoring and evaluation of implementation of
the Plan.

Given that the responsibility for implementation of identified action items is spread
across various stakeholders, the Network Planning Group (NPG), chaired by MD
TIDCO, will have a key role in implementation of the Logistics Plan.

The NPG will undertake the following activities with respect to implementation of the
Plan:

       Development of specific action plans and proposals, and facilitation of
        integration and synchronisation of transport and logistics infrastructure
        projects working with members of the NPG

       Facilitate regular and intensive coordination between various State and
        Central        Government            agencies             and   departments   responsible         for
        implementation of the action points under the Plan

       Formation of working groups/ sub-committees by nomination of nodal
        officers from department and agencies for focussed and fast-tracked
        implementation of the Plan

       Coordinate, monitor and oversee implementation of the Plan

       Liaison with Finance Department and Central Government agencies for
        enabling appropriate funding sources for key initiatives


   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                          Page 90 of 148
        Undertake data collection and preparation of relevant studies with respect to
         subjects related to the Plan through the support of the Technical Support Unit
         and /or external agencies

        Recommend updates and amendments to the Plan considering emerging
         requirements, stakeholder inputs and outcomes of Plan implementation

The NPG will work in close coordination with the following key Ministries,
Departments and Agencies (MDAs) for implementation of the TNLP & TNILP, 2023.

    Exhibit 5: Key Ministries, Department and Agencies for implementation of TNLP & TNILP

Sr. Policy objective                   and Ministries, Departments and Agencies
No. focus area
1       Enabling integrated and                     ► Industries, Investment          Promotion     and
        robust          logistics                     Commerce Department
        infrastructure                              ► Agriculture  and          Farmer’s       Welfare
        development                                   Department (AFWD)
                                                    ► Highways and Minor Ports Department
                                                    ► Municipal Administration and Water Supply
                                                      Department
                                                    ► Housing    and          Urban     Development
                                                      Department
                                                    ► Rural Development and Panchayat Raj
                                                      Department
                                                    ► Indian Railways
                                                    ► National Highways Authority of India
                                                      (NHAI)
                                                    ► Major Port Authorities
                                                    ► Airport Authority of India
                                                    ► Transport Department
                                                    ► Corporation,   Food         and       Consumer
                                                      Protection Department
                                                    ► Labour Welfare and Skill Development
                                                      Department
                                                    ► Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries
                                                      Department
                                                    ► Micro Small       and    Medium      Enterprises
                                                      Department

    Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                         Page 91 of 148
Sr. Policy objective                   and Ministries, Departments and Agencies
No. focus area
                                                    ► Revenue and        Disaster      Management
                                                      Department
                                                    ► Central Board of Indirect Taxes and
                                                      Customs (CBIC)
                                                    ► Food    and       Consumer          Protection
                                                      Department
2       Promoting availability                      ► Indian Railways
        of cost-efficient and                       ► Central Board of Indirect Taxes and
        high-quality   logistics                      Customs (CBIC)
        services
                                                    ► Highways and Minor Ports Department
                                                    ► Airport Authority of India
                                                    ► Transport Department
                                                    ► Industries, Investment        Promotion     and
                                                      Commerce Department
                                                    ► Agriculture     and      Farmer’s      Welfare
                                                      Department
                                                    ► Major Port Authorities
3       Creating an enabling                        ► Department of Municipal Administration
        environment          for                      and Water Supply Department
        logistics activities                        ► Housing    and        Urban     Development
                                                      Department
                                                    ► Ministry of Road Transport and Highways,
                                                      GoI
                                                    ► Highways and Minor Ports Department
                                                    ► Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution
                                                      Corporation Ltd.
                                                    ► Commercial     Taxes      and    Registration
                                                      Department
                                                    ► Tamil Nadu State Police
                                                    ► Industries, Investment        Promotion     and
                                                      Commerce Department
                                                    ► Transport Department
                                                    ► Labour Welfare and Skill Development
                                                      Department
                                                    ► Rural Development and Panchayat Raj
                                                      Department


    Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 92 of 148
Sr. Policy objective                   and Ministries, Departments and Agencies
No. focus area
4       Inculcating    resilience                   ► Industries, Investment Promotion              and
        and sustainability in the                     Commerce Department (TIDCO)
        logistics ecosystem                         ► Indian Railways
                                                    ► Housing    and          Urban     Development
                                                      Department
                                                    ► National Highways Authority of India
                                                    ► Highways and Minor Ports Department
                                                    ► Municipal Administration and Water Supply
                                                      Department
5       Adopting    new      age                    ► Major Port Authorities
        technologies in logistics                   ► Industries, Investment          Promotion     and
                                                      Commerce Department
                                                    ► Tamil Nadu        Information       Technology
                                                      Department
                                                    ► National Industrial Corridor Development
                                                      and Implementation Trust (NICDIT)
                                                    ► Micro Small       and    Medium     Enterprises
                                                      Department
6       Enabling                       skill        ► Labour Welfare and Skill Development
        development in                  the           Department
        logistics sector                            ► Transport Department
                                                    ► Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation
                                                      (TNSDC)




    Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                         Page 93 of 148
Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023   Page 94 of 148
Annexure 1: Overview of Tamil Nadu Economy
4.7 State’s Economy
Tamil Nadu is India's second largest state economy, accounting for 9.47%11 of the
country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as of 2020-21. The Gross State Domestic
Product (GSDP) of Tamil Nadu expanded at a healthy Compounded Annual Growth
Rate (CAGR) of 10.02% between 2014-15 and 2020-21 viz-a-vis 9.46% for the
country, to reach Rs. 19.03 trillion.

The distribution of Gross (State) Value Added (GVA/GSVA) by sector indicates
contribution of primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors in the ratio of 13%: 33%:
54% respectively vis-a-vis 20%: 26%: 54% for the country outlining a vibrant
manufacturing sector in the State.

Economic activity in the State is largely concentrated in the western and northern
regions including Chennai, Tiruvallur, and Coimbatore – districts that contribute
more than 5% to the State’s GSDP individually.

In line with its vision of accelerated and inclusive economic growth, the GoTN is
taking up numerous initiatives and industrial projects in other regions to harness
their economic potential.



4.8 Industrial Profile and Priorities
Tamil Nadu, being one of the most industrialized states in the country has a vibrant
and diverse manufacturing sector with around 38,13112 factories which is the
highest in the country.

It features among the leading states across several industries such as automobiles
and auto components, textiles, electronics, machinery, garments, food processing,




11
     Industries Department, Policy Note 2022-23
12
     Industries Department, Policy Note 2022-2023


       Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023   Page 95 of 148
chemicals and leather products, among others. Over the years, numerous well-
known companies across industries have set up factories in the State.

The State is also among the leading states in terms of exports. Major export products
from the State include automotive (37% of India’s automotive exports), apparel and
clothing (45% of India’s apparel and clothing exports), machinery (18% of India’s
machinery exports), electrical machinery and electronics (16% of India’s electrical
and electronics exports), and footwear (44% of India’s footwear exports).

The Government of Tamil Nadu has set a target of for its GSDP to reach USD 1 trillion
(~Rs. 76.19 trillion) by 2030. To meet this target, the State has planned to grow the
manufacturing sector from USD 48.1 billion in financial year 2020-21 to USD 250
billion in financial year 2030-3113.

The GoTN has also prepared the Tamil Nadu Export Promotion Strategy 2021 with
the goal of increasing exports from Tamil Nadu to USD 100 billion by 2030 from
USD 26 billion in 2021. In this context, the State has identified champion sectors to
promote exports including Textile & Apparel, Food Processing, Auto & Auto
Components, Leather & Footwear, Electronics, and Machinery.




13
     Industries Department, Policy Note 2022-2023


       Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023     Page 96 of 148
            Exhibit 6: Gross District Domestic Product - District-wise share across TN




Source: Information collated and analysed including from public sources

  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                    Page 97 of 148
Further, with the vision of making “Tamil Nadu the numero uno destination to invest,
innovate and create products”, GoTN notified the Industrial Policy, 2021. The
Industrial Policy 2021 continues to promote existing focus sectors, which are the
drivers of economic growth and development in the State. These focus sectors are
Automobile and Auto Components, Chemicals, Electronics & Hardware, Heavy
Engineering, Leather, Textiles, Financial Services, and Software.

Additionally, to expand the list of industries in the State, the Government of Tamil
Nadu (GoTN) has identified sunrise sectors where investments can be promoted.
These sunrise sectors are:

      Aerospace & defence applications

      Agriculture & food processing except edible oil industries

      Renewable energy component manufacturing

      Electronic system design and manufacturing

      Medical electronics, devices, and equipment

      Electric Vehicles, EV Cell & Battery Manufacturing or any green fuel
       technology such as hydrogen fuel

      Biotechnology

      Pharmaceuticals, Bulk Drugs and Nutraceuticals

      Petrochemicals and Speciality Chemicals

      Footwear, Finished Leather Goods and Polyurethane Fabric

      Technical Textiles including Medical Textiles

The GoTN has already committed development of several industrial clusters spread
across the State.




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023       Page 98 of 148
Tamil Nadu is amongst few states in India that have most of their districts covered
under industrial corridor projects. These projects include Chennai Bengaluru
Industrial Corridor (CBIC), Chennai Kanyakumari Industrial Corridor (CKIC), Kochi –
Coimbatore – Bengaluru Industrial Corridor and the Defence Industrial Corridor
projects. Industrial and infrastructural development along these corridors is
expected to lead to rapid economic growth. Various industries planned to be
developed along these industrial corridors include mobility, armoured vehicles &
tanks, space technology, sensors, radars, communication & electronic warfare,
Maintenance, Repair, and Operations (MRO), aircraft standard parts & drones, ship
& submarine building, steel, textiles, aluminium, and general engineering precision
manufacturing etc.

These industrial corridor projects are expected to enable seamless movement of
industrial products from various nodes to export gateways (Ports, Airports, and
EXIM Terminals) and major consumption centres.

Additionally, these corridors will also connect adjoining states like Karnataka,
Andhra Pradesh and Kerala to Tamil Nadu and would help increase the catchment of
EXIM terminals beyond the State’s boundary by providing state-of-the-art transport
and logistics infrastructure and services.




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023      Page 99 of 148
                Exhibit 7: Existing industrial clusters/developments in Tamil Nadu




Source: Information collated and analysed including from Industries, Investment Promotion, &
Commerce Department, GoTN

Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                     Page 100 of 148
                Exhibit 8: Upcoming industrial clusters/developments in Tamil Nadu




Source: Information collated and analysed including from Industries, Investment Promotion, &
Commerce Department, GoTN


 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                   Page 101 of 148
4.9 Agricultural Profile
Tamil Nadu falls in a semi-dry sub-humid climatic zone with an area of ~58.62 Lakh
Ha under agricultural and horticultural cultivation as of 2019-2020. The area under
agricultural cultivation accounts for 75% of the total area under cultivation – with
key agricultural products being food grains such as paddy, millets, maize,
groundnut, jowar, pulses and cash crops such as cotton, sugarcane and oilseeds.
The rest of the area under horticultural cultivation (around 25% of the total area
under cultivation) have crops including fruits, vegetables, spices and condiments,
medicinal and aromatic plants and flowers.

With the implementation of various State and Central Government schemes, crop
intensification and improved agronomic practices for coarse cereals, the production
of food grains in the State increased significantly from 75.95 lakh tons in the year
2010-11 to 115.02 lakh tons in the year 2019-20. The State also accounted for
193.68 lakh tons of horticulture production (fruits, vegetables, flowers, medical &
aromatic plants), 4.18 lakh bales of cotton, 141.19 lakh tons of sugarcane and
10.75 lakh tons of oilseeds in 2019-20. The following exhibit depicts a snapshot of
the trend of agricultural and horticultural production in Tamil Nadu.

 Exhibit 9: Area under Agriculture and Horticulture Cultivation in Tamil Nadu (2015-16 to 2019-
                                               20)

 100%

  80%

  60%           45.62                 36.35                  42.73               41.87      44.02

  40%

  20%
                13.33                 13.16                  12.80               13.61      14.60
   0%
               2015-16               2016-17               2017-18              2018-19    2019-20

                                              Horticulture        Agriculture

Note: Numbers in the Exhibit pertain to area under cultivation in Lakh Ha.
Source: Information collated and analysed including from Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
Department, GoTN



     Exhibit 10: Agriculture and horticulture production in Tamil Nadu (2015-16 to 2019-20)




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 102 of 148
Year                            FY 16             FY 17          FY 18   FY 19      FY 20
Horticulture          (Lakh
                                166.8             135.9          139.9   166.9      193.7
Tons)
Food Grains           (Lakh
                                113.9             52.38          107.1   103.9      115
Tons)
Cotton (Lakh Bales)             3.27              2.02           4.39    3.20       4.18
Sugarcane             (Lakh
                                255               189.9          171.5   170.9      141.2
Tons)
Oilseeds (Lakh Tons) 9.32                         6.04           10.38   9.41       10.75
Source: Information collated and analysed including from Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
Department, Government of Tamil Nadu




A spatial distribution analysis highlights that the districts of Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri,
Namakkal, Salem, Theni, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Thiruvannamalai and
Erode are major clusters for agricultural and horticultural production.

The State has a number of post-harvest agricultural logistics and marketing facilities
including go-downs, cold storages, transaction sheds, drying yards, specialised
market complexes and primary processing centers (PPCs), among others –
developed by the State and Central Government agencies as well as private sector
players. As per the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department’s Policy Note of
2021-22, regulated markets within the State have ~469 go-downs with a combined
capacity of ~ 5.6 lakh tonnes, ~414 transaction sheds, ~85 traders’ shops, ~334
drying yards and ~30 specialised market complexes. As per the Tamil Nadu Agri-
Marketing Department, the State has ~194 government owned and 136 privately
owned cold storage facilities with an estimated combined capacity of ~ 18,000
tonnes and ~2.3 lakh tonnes respectively. Of these ~44 cold storages are of a
capacity of more than 2,000 tonnes – owned primarily by the private sector.

The Government of Tamil Nadu and the Central Government have undertaken
several initiatives to develop agricultural processing and associated logistics
infrastructure in the State. Development of food parks have been planned at
Tindivanam, Mannaparai and Theni to establish large scale agricultural processing
and logistics facilities and enhance value creation for farmers in the State. A number


  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                   Page 103 of 148
of PPCs are being developed in the State under the Tamil Nadu Supply Chain
Management Project. Under the project, ~64 PPCs have been developed across 10
districts, having essential post-harvest logistics and processing infrastructure
including go-downs, cold storages, packhouses and processing lines. Depending on
the need, some of the PPCs are also equipped with specialised facilities – including
individual quick-freezing lines, vapour heat treatment plants and APEDA
(Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority)
accredited packhouses. The project is further being extended to 8 more districts and
the works are under progress.




4.10 Enhancing Transport & Logistics
Empirical evidence suggest that efficient logistics characterised by lower costs,
shorter lead times and higher reliability have significant impact on the
competitiveness of primary and secondary sector value chains for domestic as well
as international trade.

Reliable and cost-efficient supply chains can enable enhanced value preservation/
derivation for agriculture as well as industrial sectors. For instance, while a farmer
present in a particular market may otherwise realise a lower share of the value of
his produce, with efficient logistics, the same produce can be moved closer to a
consumption center – significantly improving the farmer’s value derivation, as well
as benefiting the consumer on account of lower prices (and potentially better
quality). Similarly, with efficient logistics, manufacturing firms can more effectively
source raw materials as well as competitively trade in domestic as well as
international markets.

At the same time, the potential impacts of inefficient logistics can be indirect/ hidden
and yet detrimental to an economy. For instance, a study14 focussing on the time
taken to move containerised products from production sites to the nearest ports
suggested that for each additional day, the product was delayed while awaiting


14
     Djankov, Freund, & Pham – Trading on time - The Review of Economics and Statistics (2010) 92 (1): 166–173.


      Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                                    Page 104 of 148
shipment, trade was impacted by more than one percent. Further, another study by
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 2011
suggested that reduction in transportation time by sea by 1 day could increase trade
by around 4.5%.




  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023       Page 105 of 148
             Exhibit 11: District wise distribution of agriculture area by commodity




Source: Information collated and analysed including from Agriculture and Farmers
Welfare Department, GoTN




Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                     Page 106 of 148
             Exhibit 12: District wise distribution of horticulture area by commodity




Source: Information collated and analysed including from Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
Department, GoTN



 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                    Page 107 of 148
Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023   Page 108 of 148
Annexure 2: Identification of key Policy Levers/
  Strategic Themes for Logistics Policy

4.11 Introduction
Globally, the World Bank undertakes preparation of a Logistics Performance Index
(LPI) to help countries identify challenges and opportunities in their performance on
trade logistics along the logistics supply chain within a country. By comparison and
benchmarking with other countries, it also enables countries to analyse ways of
improving their logistics performance.

In India, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry developed the Logistics Ease Across
Different States (LEADS) Index to measure performance of the logistics eco-systems
at a sub-national level – across various states and Union Territories of the country.

The frameworks for preparation of these indices were studied to identify the
dimensions considered important for studying and improving logistics performance.

Also, globally emerging themes and good practices in the logistics industry were
studied to identify key levers/ themes for bringing about a long-term improvement
in the transport & logistics eco-system in the State.

4.12 Logistics Performance Index (LPI) of the World Bank
LPI is based on a survey of logistics operators – multinational freight forwarders and
express carriers (companies responsible for moving goods and facilitating trade
around the world), and combines the feedback to evaluate logistics performance of
countries on six key indicators.

The indicators – identified based on theoretical and empirical research and
consultations with logistics professionals, pertaining to two key categories, are15:

           Areas for policy regulations (inputs)


15
     Connecting to Compete – Trade Logistics in the Global Economy, 2018, The World Bank


      Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                         Page 109 of 148
            o The quality of trade and transport related infrastructure

            o The competence and quality of logistics services

            o The efficiency of customs and border management clearance

      Service delivery performance outcomes (time, cost, reliability)

            o The ease of arranging competitively priced international shipments

            o The ability to track and trace consignments

            o The frequency with which shipments reach consignees within the
                 scheduled or expected delivery time

Essentially, the first set of indicators – customs, infrastructure and services, can be
seen to cover areas for policy regulation and strategic interventions by the
government/ public sector that can result in performance of the supply chain in the
form of time, cost and reliability indicated by the second set of indicators – timeliness
of shipments, competitively priced international shipments, and tracking and
tracing.

In the context of international and/ or domestic logistics, ‘enabling environment/
regulations’ can be seen as the broader and more generalised indicator that can
subsume ‘the efficiency of customs and border management clearance’ for
international logistics as well as others like approvals and clearances, law and order,
incentives, etc. for domestic logistics.

The indicator pertaining to ‘the quality of trade and transport related infrastructure’
can be seen to encompass the quality of transport and allied infrastructure (road,
rail, waterways, shipping, air transport, cargo terminals, warehousing etc.) as well
as soft infrastructure (Information and Communications Technology).

The indicator pertaining to ‘the competence and quality of logistics services’
captures the important role services play in the delivery of efficient logistics to end
users. Cost effective service provision can reduce overall logistics costs for users.



  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023           Page 110 of 148
The quality of services provided by operators can in turn be influenced by the extent
of competition in the market and availability of skilled professionals.



4.13 Logistics Ease Across Different States (LEADS) Index of the
    Ministry of Commerce and Industry, GoI
The LEADS index was formulated and launched by MoCI in 2018 wherein the states
and union territories were ranked on relative performance of their Exim logistics
ecosystem on the basis of feedback of key logistics stakeholders. The index has been
evolving to include performance of the logistics ecosystem for domestic freight
movement as well as inclusion of select objective (data-based) indicators.

These indicators are summarised below:

   (a) Perception based indicators

Perception-based indicators were used to solicit input and feedback from logistics
sector stakeholders on the performance of the logistics eco-system in the state/
union territory. The basic structure for LEADS over its three editions, has continued
to focus on the three dimensions collectively influencing logistics ease –
Infrastructure, Services, and Operating and Regulatory Environment.

   (b) Objective indicators

Objective indicators – introduced for the first time in the LEADS 2021 edition,

      sought to assess enabling initiatives being undertaken by states / union
       territories - covering policy, institutional, regulatory, and other initiatives, as
       well as

      use of available secondary data points - covering availability of logistics
       infrastructure, services, and facilities across the states.

Based on the above review of the frameworks for preparation of LPI and LEADS, the
key strategic themes/ levers for focusing and effecting change with respect to
logistics performance can be identified as – infrastructure, logistics service

  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023            Page 111 of 148
provision and provision of enabling environment for logistics infrastructure &
services.

     Exhibit 13: LEADS parameters mapped to policy levers and strategic themes

 Sr.      Policy    levers and Leads parameters
 No       strategic themes for
          interventions
 1        Infrastructure                            ► Quality of available infrastructure (rail, road ,
                                                      unimodal, multimodal terminals, warehouses
                                                      and other facilities)
                                                    ► Availability of mobile/internet connectivity
 2        Competence,    cost                       ► Quality of logistics services and service
          effectiveness   and                         providers
          quality of logistics
          services
 3        Enabling environment                      ► Extent of facilitation by state or union
          for logistics activities                    territory, ease of obtaining approvals and
                                                      efficiency of regulatory services (change in
                                                      land use, Regional Transport Office (RTO),
                                                      GST etc.)
                                                    ► Institutional mechanism for logistics sector
                                                    ► Policy initiatives – policies and plans,
                                                      subsidies and incentives, skilling and
                                                      sustainability
                                                    ► Regulatory and operational – Single window
                                                      mechanism, change in land use, smart
                                                      enforcement, enabling first and last mile
                                                      connectivity, grievance redressal mechanism

Source: Analyses of the LEADS Report




4.14 Globally emerging themes and good practices in logistics sector
The logistics sector has been evolving and witnessing multiple changes over the past
few years. Given the need for the logistics policy and plan for the State to have a
longer-term perspective, it is imperative for such trends to be accounted for in the
policy and plan.




     Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 112 of 148
An analysis of the megatrends and good practices being adopted in the logistics
sector across the globe bring out the following key themes.


            Exhibit 14: Globally emerging themes and good practices in logistics sector




   (a) Digital transformation through adoption of new age technologies

Adoption of digital technology has been one of the most disruptive trends in the
logistics sector over the past few years. The sector has been shifting to Logistics 4.0
– a term derived from Industry 4.0 – driving digitisation and technology adoption for
automation of logistics activities and networking of components with an ultimate
goal of simplifying processes and increasing efficiencies.

Some such technology interventions involve use of big data analytics, Internet of
Things and robotics, among others for planning, operations management, inventory
management and other relevant logistics activities.

In this context, it would be important for a future-oriented policy and plan to
encourage and support the logistics industry to adopt new technologies – especially
in the initial stages when the linkage to return on investment could be less clear.

   (b) Inculcating sustainability in the logistics eco-system

Environment conservation and sustainability have taken centre stage in policy
discussions today. Businesses across the globe have also started focussing on
environmental sustainability and have started making efforts to optimize their
carbon footprint.


  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                   Page 113 of 148
This trend has now also led companies to consider switching to ‘greener’ supply
chains. Though emissions from all logistics activities can be difficult to estimate, the
same can be estimated for transport related activities.

Presently, in India, CO2 emissions due to freight transport sector are about 220
million tonnes, with road freight accounting for 95%16. Decarbonisation needs to be
a priority for governments as well as the industry. Measures for decarbonisation
may include interventions such as improved asset utilisation in logistics for storage,
transport and handling, shift to greener modes of transport having lower carbon
intensity, electrification of urban freight transport and use of alternative fuels,
among others. Government support and creating an enabling environment could be
of significant importance to encourage and promote this shift in the logistics sector.

       (c) Enabling skill development in logistics sector

Although, the logistics industry has undergone significant mechanisation and
automation, it is, and is expected to remain largely a manpower intensive business.
The sector is furthermore labour intensive at the operational level with extensive
involvement of blue-collar workforce. The workforce forms a major input area in
terms of logistics services quality which – as outlined above, has been identified as
important for high logistics performance.

In 2017, the World Bank and the Kühne Logistics University published a report on
skills, competencies, and training in the logistics sector. It drew attention to a
common perception that logistics workforce is often in short supply in both
developed and developing markets. The difference being that in developing
countries, the challenge is with respect to workforce at a managerial level, while in
developed countries, it is with respect to blue-collar workforce. One of the key
reasons for such a scenario is the low compensation, social security and prestige in
blue-collar jobs in the logistics sector (such as truck drivers).

Policy and strategic level interventions are important for enabling availability of
skilled workforce in the logistics sector – to enable higher logistics efficiency and


16
     Fast Tracking Freight in India – NITI Aayog


       Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023      Page 114 of 148
better performance. Furthermore, growth of the logistics sector can generate
additional employment.

4.15 Strategic themes for TN’s Logistics Policy
Based on assessment of the World Bank’s LPI, MoCI’s LEADS Index and emerging
trends and good practices in the logistics sector across the globe, strategic themes
and policy levers were identified for the State’s logistics policy formulation.

The strategic themes and policy levers were identified such that they not only focus
on the key input parameters influencing logistics performance, but also focus on
areas important to the development of a future-focused industry.

Accordingly, the Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy focuses on policy initiatives and
interventions across 06 strategic themes illustrated in the following exhibit.

                     Exhibit 15: Strategic themes for Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy




  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                      Page 115 of 148
Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023   Page 116 of 148
Annexure 3: Identifying issues, requirements and
  emerging trends for Logistics Plan
4.16 Overview
A methodical and consultative approach was adopted for mapping existing transport
& logistics infrastructure in the State and identifying issues being faced by
stakeholders. Towards this end, relevant data was collated and mapped to facilitate
a spatial analysis in terms of as-is trunk infrastructure availability, availability of
intermodal linkages (railway and road network) and availability of terminal logistics
infrastructure across various regions of the State.

Further, logistics costs were mapped for 2 selected Exim freight corridors and 1
selected domestic freight corridor vis-à-vis the logistics value chain of major
commodities on these corridors to illustratively study and understand key logistics
cost elements and attendant issues.

Along with the above analyses, several stakeholder consultations were undertaken
– through one-on-one interactions as well as regional workshops to seek feedback
and inputs/ suggestions with respect to issues faced by the stakeholders in
accessing and utilising logistics infrastructure and services in the State. The
stakeholders included state and central government agencies, logistics operators,
developers, and industry users. In addition to the above, observations made under
MoCI’s LEADS report were also reviewed to assess issues outlined with respect to
infrastructure, services and operating and regulatory environment in the State.

Additionally, an assessment of emerging trends and good practices was also
undertaken so that the policy and plan can account for the State’s logistics sector to
be future ready.

4.17 Infrastructure review and stakeholder consultations
Tamil Nadu has a well-functioning logistics eco-system and supports the State’s
industry. The State has the second longest coastline in the country with the
presence of 3 major seaports (at Chennai, V.O. Chidambaranar, and Kamarajar) and


  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023          Page 117 of 148
15 minor ports (Kattupalli being the largest developed on PPP). To cater to
movement at these ports, several ICDs and CFSs have been developed in the
hinterland, serving industries in Tamil Nadu as well as adjoining states.

The State has 4 air cargo terminals at Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, and
Tiruchirappalli. The State has around 6,600-kilometre network of National
Highways, ~11,275-kilometre network of State Highways and 3,852 track kilometre
of railway network catering to inter and intra state freight movement. Further,
several large transport infrastructure projects are in the pipeline to support
economic growth and requirements of the State.

A detailed infrastructure review was undertaken for the State in terms of mapping
and study of trunk (railway and road network) and terminal infrastructure for goods
transport. This was based on:

      Collection and analyses of data from a number of agencies as well as
       information in the public domain

      Mapping of information vis-à-vis geographical locations/ coordinates

It may be noted that going forward, infrastructure mapping exercise is expected to
be substantially supported by using the PM Gati Shakti National Masterplan and
Portal.

In summary, the study and mapping of trunk (railway and road network) and terminal
logistics infrastructure for goods transport was undertaken as outlined in the
following Exhibit. Subsequent exhibits illustrate the results of the infrastructure
mapping exercise.




  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023         Page 118 of 148
   Exhibit 16: Contours of study and mapping of trunk and terminal logistics infrastructure

Infrastructure                          Aspects studied/ mapped and description
                       Current network – extent and geographical spread/ coverage
                       within the State
                       Proximity/ connectivity to key infrastructure/ clusters – ports,
                       airports, logistics parks, industrial clusters/ freight generating
Trunk                  locations
                       Existing and Planned Projects
                       Potential/ required projects & interventions for capacity
                       expansion
                       Spatial distribution of terminals
                       Existing capacities of terminal Infrastructure and upcoming
                       connectivity projects
Terminal
                       Potential/ required projects & interventions for capacity
                       expansion and connectivity improvement
                       Other measures needed




 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                  Page 119 of 148
                       Exhibit 17: Trunk logistics infrastructure in Tamil Nadu




Source: Information collated and analysed including from Highways and Minor Ports Department,
GoTN, National Highways Authority of India, and Indian Railways




Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                      Page 120 of 148
                   Exhibit 18: Terminal logistics infrastructure in Tamil Nadu (Part 1)




Source: Information collated and analysed including from Highways and Minor Ports Department,
GoTN, Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department, GoTN, Major Port Authorities,
Airport Authority of India, and Indian Railways

   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 121 of 148
                  Exhibit 19: Terminal logistics infrastructure in Tamil Nadu (Part 2)




Source: Information collated and analysed including from Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
Department, GoTN, Central Warehousing Corporation, Tamil Nadu Warehousing Corporation,
Warehousing Development and Regulatory Authority, GoI and public sources

  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 122 of 148
Based on the present status of logistics eco-system in the State and considering its
context of industrialisation as well as focus on further industrial and economic
growth, potential issues needed to be addressed were identified and are summarised
in the following exhibit. This exercise was based on:

      Studying of extent of trunk, terminal and other infrastructure coverage as
       well as inter-modal interface across various regions of the State by overlay of
       various GIS layers of information collated

      Site visits to select locations

      Multiple stakeholder consultations with government agencies, logistics
       players and user industries on – infrastructure availability and quality;
       availability, cost effectiveness and quality of services; operating and
       regulatory environment for logistics in the state.



    Exhibit 20: Summary of infrastructure review, site visits and stakeholder consultations

  Component                                                Potential issues

 Railway                •   High-capacity utilization of railway lines with ~30% of the
 network                    network facing congestion having a capacity utilisation of

 (Trunk Infra)              more than 80%. Some of such corridors include:

                              o Chennai and nearby regions

                              o Coimbatore – Chennai

                              o Erode – Nagapattinam

                              o Chennai – Tiruchirappalli

                              o Salem - Tiruchirappalli

                        •   Absence of rail connectivity to seaports like Katupalli port,
                            Cuddalore port

                        •   Lack of rail connectivity to the key industrial clusters
                            (Sriperumbudur, Oragadam, Irungattukottai)


  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                  Page 123 of 148
 Component                                                Potential issues

Road network           •   High traffic volume to capacity ratio over stretches on the

(Trunk Infra)              following key corridors:

                             o Hosur – Chennai Port

                             o Chennai – Tiruchirappalli – Madurai – Kanyakumari

                             o Coimbatore – Erode -Krishnagiri

                       •   Lack of truck lay bays on some of the major routes

                       •   Suboptimal first/ last mile connectivity and/ or intersection
                           with road corridors at some of the industrial clusters (Hosur,
                           Orgadam, Sriperumbudur, and irangattukottai) and terminal
                           infrastructure (seaports)

Railway                •   Railway terminals in the state are largely confined to goods
terminal                   sheds with limited to no availability of storage and other
infrastructure             ancillary facilities

                       •   Access roads to a number of goods sheds are in-sufficient in
                           width and require widening and improvements. These
                           include:

                              o Thanjavur

                              o Walajabad

                              o Melpakkam

                              o Ariyalur

                              o Dindigul

                       •   Absence of operating Private Freight Terminals leading to
                           limited availability rail linked terminals with superior handling
                           and storage infrastructure




 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                 Page 124 of 148
 Component                                                Potential issues

Truck terminal •           Absence of organised truck terminals at many of the SIPCOT
facilities                 clusters and industrial regions (under implementation at
                           some locations)

                       •   Absence of truck terminals at high cargo density locations
                           lead to on-street parking of vehicles, decreasing the effective
                           capacity of the roads resulting in congestion

Seaports               •   Heavy congestion at road stretches between North Chennai

(Terminal                  Thermal Power Station to Kattupalli Port and Vaikkadu,

Infra)                     Bridge (MFL Junction) to Outer Ring Road Junction (ORR)
                           and MFL Junction to Zero Gate (Chennai Port) Via Manali
                           High Road & Ennore Express Road

                       •   Mixed configuration or roads leading to bottlenecks (two and
                           four lane combinations), lack of truck parking facility around
                           Chennai, Kattupalli and Ennore port cluster roads leading to
                           queuing of vehicles on the road

                       •   Need to fast track implementation of Maduravoyal to Chennai
                           Port      elevated corridor          project and   extending    it to
                           Sriperambudur

                       •   Absence of rail connectivity infrastructure at Kattupalli and
                           Cuddalore port

Airport freight •          Day time restrictions not allowing 24X7 connectivity to Air
terminal                   Cargo Complex at Chennai Airport
infrastructure
                       •   High dwell time at Chennai Air Cargo Complex

                       •   Absence of air cargo facility at Tuticorin



Exim logistics •           Congestion at the junctions/ roads connecting EXIM
terminal                   terminals/ ICDs – around 20 CFS served by Vaikkadu Bridge



 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                      Page 125 of 148
 Component                                                Potential issues

infrastructure             (MFL Junction) to Outer Ring Road Junction (ORR) that does
(ICDs/ CFSs)               not have a capacity commensurate to handle the cargo flow

                       •   Truck and trailers with port bound cargo in at Chennai port
                           cluster parked along the road decreasing the effective
                           carriageway of the road

                       •   Absence of multimodal logistics parks/ terminals with Exim
                           facilities in the state (except CONCOR)

Storage                •   Low occupancy rate of certain warehouses of Tamil Nadu
infrastructure             Warehousing Corporation
(warehouses)
                       •   Lack of modernised warehouses and handling practices,
                           especially in the public sector warehouses

                       •   Need of development of warehousing hubs in Tier II and III
                           locations

                       •   Lack of data with government agencies on private sector
                           warehousing assets in the state with warehouses being
                           treated as commercial developments during development
                           registration process

Agriculture            •   Limited availability of high-capacity reefer vans constraining
logistics                  reach to distant markets
infrastructure
                       •   Limited Primary Processing Centres (PPCs) at some of the
                           key horticulture intensive regions

                       •   Inadequate            infrastructure     like     ripening     chambers,
                           dehumidifier and reefer trucks in rural collection centres
                           leading to huge post harvesting losses

Logistics              •   Air cargo services at the Chennai Airport are adversely
services                   affected by lack of 24/7 connectivity




 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 126 of 148
 Component                                                Potential issues

                       •   Unavailability of mechanised handling facilities and modern
                           storages, especially at TNWC warehouses

                       •   High cargo dwell time/customs clearance time at Chennai
                           Airport and seaports

                       •   Absence of Kisan Rail services in Tamil Nadu vis-a-vis other
                           states

                       •   Non-availability of modern rail linked terminals/storage in the
                           state with heavy reliance on goods sheds for rail services

                       •   Limited availability of high-capacity reefer vehicles in the
                           State

                       •   High       freight      tariffs,     and   lack   of   adequate    storage
                           infrastructure and manpower at ICD Irugur limits its potential

                       •   Unavailability of scheduled container rail services in the state
                           except for a few routes by CONCOR

                       •   Limited adoption of technology in logistics companies except
                           a few large players

                       •   Limited availability of skilled workforce for logistics, drivers
                           for heavy truck movement

                       •   There is limited visibility of workforce availability within the
                           logistics ecosystem

                       •   Limited penetration of coastal shipping in the state

Operating and •            No explicit notification by the government allowing logistics
regulatory                 facilities to operate 24/7
environment
                       •   Absence of single window clearance mechanism for all
                           logistics related activities




 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 127 of 148
      Component                                                Potential issues

                            •    Panchayat level approvals not available in the existing single
                                 window clearance system for warehousing projects

                            •    Multiple physical checks of goods carrying vehicles by
                                 commercial tax officers/enforcement agencies

                            •    Day time restrictions for freight vehicles in urban areas
                                 especially like Chennai increases the logistics time and cost
                                 for cargo movement

                            •    Clearances/approvals for the movement of over dimensional
                                 cargo and project cargo is time taking

                            •    Incentives under Industrial Policy 2021 for logistics facilities
                                 that include allocation of land in SIPCOT clusters, are not
                                 applicable for relatively smaller logistics development
                                 especially in tier II and tier III cities

                            •    Maximum permissible height for warehousing development is
                                 lower than other states

                            •    Imposition of sub-leasing charges in SIPCOT cluster make
                                 built to suit warehousing difficult due to increase in costs

                            •    There is no grievance redressal mechanism for issues faced
                                 by logistics sector businesses



4.18 Review of select freight corridors and learnings from LEADS
As mentioned earlier, Tamil Nadu is India's second largest state economy,
accounting for 9.47%17 of the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as of 2020-
21. It is one of the most industrialized states and has a strong manufacturing base
of ‘champion sectors’ – 6 sectors identified by the state government to focus with
respect to the State’s export thrust. These sectors account for 70% of export of the


17
     Industries Department, Policy Note 2022-23


      Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                  Page 128 of 148
State and includes automobiles and auto components, textile, food processing,
leather and footwear, electronics and communication as well as machinery.

As per a study by the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER), while
the proportion of logistics costs18 with respect to the GVA varies across sectors, it
can be substantial proportion with respect to value chain in some sectors. The
logistics costs as a proportion of GVA across some of the key sectors in Tamil Nadu
are illustrated in the following exhibit19.



                       Exhibit 21: Logistics costs as a proportion of GVA for certain sectors

                                                                                                        Logistics
     Sr.
                Sector                                                                                  costs (% of
     No.
                                                                                                        GVA)
     1          Agriculture and Allied                                                                  21.6%
     2          Textile, Wearing Apparels and Leather Products                                          7.91%
                Consumer electronics, Electronic components including
     3                                                                4.19%
                Computer etc.
     4          Cement                                                                                  12.97%
     5          Machinery and equipment                                                                 17.98%

Source: Information collated and analysed including from National Council of Applied Economic
Research

Inadequate or inefficient transportation, logistics, and trade-related infrastructure
can limit a country's ability to compete on a global scale. Empirical studies suggest
that inefficient logistics can raise the cost of doing business and reduce potential of
trade growth by 10 to 15% - impacting integration of domestic and international
markets.

Accordingly, the study and identification of measures for reduction of logistics costs
becomes a key imperative for competitiveness of the industry in the State.




18
   The NCAER report only looks at transport and direct logistics costs, and does not include the inefficiency cost represented
primarily by the cost of carrying inventory in the system
19
     Quantifying India’s Logistics Costs – NCAER, September 2019


         Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                                   Page 129 of 148
Selecting key freight corridors

To specifically study logistics cost for key commodities and review potential ways of
reducing the same, 2 major EXIM freight corridors and 1 major domestic freight
corridor were studied. The objective of this exercise was to create a framework for
mapping logistics costs on these corridors with respect to key commodities and
identify potential issues (as well as measures for reduction) vis-à-vis logistics costs.

The corridors were short-listed with reference to key industrial and trade clusters
contributing to major economic activity in the State and corridors over which freight
moves with respect to these clusters.

Trade in Tamil Nadu is supported by three major ports for EXIM trade and a
widespread network of rail goods sheds and warehouses supporting domestic trade.
The movement of freight to/ from the major EXIM gateways in Tamil Nadu, as well
as key interstate and intrastate routes was studied. This was further validated
through stakeholder consultations with logistics service providers, transportation
businesses, warehouse players, railways, ports and users.

The 2 major EXIM corridors and 1 major domestic corridor finally identified for
mapping logistics costs were as follows:

      Hosur to Chennai - EXIM

      Coimbatore to Tuticorin - EXIM

      Madurai to Hosur, Bangalore, Mumbai, Gujarat and Northern States-Domestic




  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023           Page 130 of 148
           Exhibit 22: Identified Exim and domestic corridors for studying logistics costs




Source: Information collated and analysed including from Industries, Investment Promotion and
Commerce Department, GoTN

EXIM Corridors

Hosur to Chennai is a 300 km corridor with significant presence of industries along
the route. A diverse range of manufactured commodities move over this corridor –
primarily for EXIM trade, including automobiles and auto components, electronics,
granite, leather, pharmaceuticals, and machinery with 97% of the movement in
containerized form.

In terms of logistics infrastructure, freight movement over this corridor utilizes
inland container depots, container freight stations, large warehousing space, and
three major ports for EXIM trade – the most important of them being Chennai Port.

The 2nd EXIM corridor connects the Coimbatore cluster to Tuticorin and is 370
kilometer long, with industries alongside including textile and garments, machinery
and engineering goods, and cotton yarns.



   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                    Page 131 of 148
In terms of logistics infrastructure, there are ICDs in Coimbatore region and Madurai,
and CFSs near Tuticorin Port which facilitate EXIM trade. Freight movement over
this corridor is largely by road on account of shorter (lead) distance.




Domestic Corridor

The identified domestic corridor extends for 420 km between Madurai and the Hosur
region. Agriculture produce, cotton yarn, cotton bales, raw cashew, and synthetic
fiber are the major commodities that move along the mentioned route.

These commodities move from Madurai to Gujarat, Maharashtra, and other northern
states in closed body trucks. Madurai also serves as an aggregation point for
industries operating in neighboring districts. Currently, cotton is also moved by
coastal shipping from Gujarat to Tuticorin port – however with a low contribution to
the overall trade volumes compared to movement by road (coastal shipping taking
twice the time taken by road transport).



       Exhibit 23: Key Origin-Destination points vis-à-vis the identified Domestic Corridor




Source: Information collated and analysed including from Indian Railways and stakeholder
consultations



  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                   Page 132 of 148
Logistics Cost Assessment

Logistics costs on these corridors were mapped with respect to commodities
contributing bulk of the movement on these corridors by mapping value chains of
such commodities and identifying attendant costs (direct financial and indirect
costs).

Transit, handling, administrative, and storage charges were taken together under
direct costs. Indirect costs – extra expenses incurred as a result of delays, traffic,
tolls, and other uncontrollable events were identified in terms of potential variability
with respect to logistics time.

Inventory costs were not considered in this assessment since they can vary widely
based on industry type and nature of trade.



                          Exhibit 24: Approach for Logistics Cost Assessment




For the EXIM corridors, movement patterns of containers were reviewed in terms of
Direct Port Entry/ Delivery, via CFS, and via ICD to the gateway ports. Key issues
that came up based on the review of EXIM corridors were associated with higher
haulage prices because of empty container repositioning from long lead distances,
high waiting time at port entry resulting in (delay) charges, and delays because of
congestion at key nodes.

These (delay) charges account for 7% to 15% of the overall logistics cost. The
following exhibit illustrates the movement of automobile and automobile


  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                 Page 133 of 148
components in containerized form from Hosur region as part of Direct Port Entry
movement, in which the exporter has to reposition the empty container all the way
from Chennai cluster for stuffing activity at Hosur. This leads to increase in haulage
costs due to extra movement of empty container on account of which the exporter
has to pay 1.2 times the actual freight. Further, congestion at Chennai port results
in waiting time of minimum 6 hours to a maximum of 1.5 days for the trailers to
enter the port gate – resulting in high waiting time and associated indirect logistics
cost. The subsequent exhibit illustrates the impact of various types of container
movements along the selected corridors on indirect costs.

                      Exhibit 25: EXIM Corridor Direct Port Entry (DPE) Movement




Source: Information collated and analysed including from stakeholder consultations




                                       Exhibit 26: Indirect Logistics Cost




Source: Information collated and analysed including from stakeholder consultations




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                      Page 134 of 148
For the domestic corridor, cargo movement by road was reviewed along with the
role of warehousing and other aggregation points along the value chain. Given the
nature of cargo being moved – commodities moving along the corridor being time
sensitive, where multiple handling was not generally required, movement by road
was found to be the most preferred option due to reliability of service and no
requirement for inter-modal handling.

It was also observed that the trade quantum was directionally imbalanced on this
corridor due to which trucks had to return empty or wait for a few days at the
destination to attract return cargo. This impacts the overall logistics costs due to
higher haulage charges and other hidden costs.

The following exhibit illustrates how cotton bales are predominantly moved from
various     cotton-producing              districts       around   Satara   to   industrial    estates
manufacturing cotton garments in Dindigul. The overall trade cycle takes around 3
to 4 days, and the cotton bales are transported in a 25-30 tonne truck from the
factory near Satara to the facility that manufactures cotton clothing in Dindigul.
Road transportation was being preferred by users given the time-sensitive nature of
demand. Also, for certain products/ cargo types, users wanted to avoid multiple
handling – inherent in transportation by rail, in order to avoid losses.

Analysis suggests that with increase in the (lead) distance, haulage cost (per ton/km)
generally reduces. However, it was observed that for certain OD pairs, the co-
relation was inverse due to absence of return cargo volumes – because of which
transport companies were seeking higher tariffs on haulage to cover up costs for
empty movement.

                                 Exhibit 27: Domestic Corridor Movement




  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                        Page 135 of 148
Source: Information collated and analysed including from stakeholder consultations

The use of alternative modes of transport was reviewed and it was found that use of
coastal shipping and rail could entail cost reduction of ~20-27% when compared to
road transportation, provided that adequate volumes were available for movement
between the specific Origin-Destination (OD) pairs. Coastal shipping could provide
economies of scale and cheaper transportation for large volumes. However, due to
lack of return cargo volumes, there is an impact on charges – limiting freight
movement by coastal shipping.

However, the overall time required for movement of freight by these alternative
modes was found to be higher as compared to the time required for transportation
by road (and the attendant service reliability).



Learnings from LEADS

Tamil Nadu has ranked 4th in LEADS 2021 ranking, compared to its 5th position in
the 2019 edition. Some of the key issues highlighted in the LEADS Report are
presented in the following exhibit.




   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                      Page 136 of 148
                           Exhibit 28: Issues highlighted in LEADS Report 2021




Source: LEADS 2021, Ministry of Commerce and Industry

The State has taken several steps to improve performance of the logistics ecosystem
including appointment of a nodal agency for integrated development of the logistics
sector, granting priority status to logistics etc.

To address issues that involve multiple agencies – including central government
agencies, the State Government has constituted a Network Planning Group
(erstwhile State Logistics Cell) with representation from State as well as Central
Government departments.

To enhance competitiveness for trade as well as improve sustainability of logistics
operations, the State could prioritise effecting improvement in service quality and



   Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                  Page 137 of 148
reliability at the gateway terminals as well as enhancing trunk infrastructure
connectivity to industrial nodes.



4.19 Emerging trends
Internationally, technology adoption in the logistics sector has gained traction
especially given the issues the logistics sector has faced in recent years. The
logistics sector is more inclined now to deploying technology for enhancing
efficiencies, building resilience, reducing costs and ensuring sustainability of
operations.

The World Bank’s Logistics Performance Index report mentions that while low-
income countries were mainly focused on logistics infrastructure and facilitation,
middle-income countries were focused on improving skills and services. High-income
countries, on the other hand, were found to be putting more emphasis on adoption
of green logistics and infusion of technology in the existing networks.

The Unified Logistics Interface Platform is an initiative of the Central Government
to integrate data from various sources under one umbrella to support improvement
of logistics efficiency and reduction of logistics costs. The platform will have the
ability to promote Multi Modal Logistics Transport/ efficient operations with
integration of digital initiatives of various agencies (Freight Operations Information
System (FOIS), Port Community System (PCS), Air Cargo Community System
(ACCS), Indian Customs Electronic Gateway (ICEGATE), etc). This platform is also
proposed to enable interfaces that enable tracking and tracing concepts towards
improving logistics service and reliability.

Progressively, efforts are also being made around the world to explore alternative
or improved modes of transport that reduce logistics costs and/ or promote green
logistics/ sustainability. In this context, pilot projects for e-highways have been
undertaken in a few places. Also, Roll-On Roll-Off (Ro-Ro) services have been
experimented with to address specific logistic requirements. Presently, Indian
Railways is carrying out such services over select routes.


  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023         Page 138 of 148
A few global case studies are summarised below – showcasing efforts to improve
logistics efficiency through solutions involving technology adoption as well as
adoption of new sustainable solutions.



Global Case Study 1: Truck Ticketing System to reduce Congestion at terminals

The truck ticketing system is an information sharing platform between stevedores/
Terminal operators/ Port and trucking companies, which essentially aids scheduling
of truck arrivals at the port to reduce long queues and truck congestion at the yards.

The digital system serves as a central information hub, directing service providers
with information to ensure smooth entry into ports and avoiding queuing outside the
port gate due to random arrivals. The system allows the ports and terminal
operators to set a quota for the maximum number of trucks allowed to enter during
a specific per-define time window which are set out based on operational
requirements.

This solution can significantly reduce waiting times, lowering one of the components
of logistics cost as well as promoting sustainability by reducing vehicular emissions.

The digital initiative has been adopted at the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach
which used a vehicle booking system to control the number of trucks arriving at the
terminal at different times of the day. Adoption of the system has improved the truck
terminal flow and has reduced the truck waiting time at the Port.

The Port of Baltimore, Port of Vancouver and Port of Hamburg have adopted the
use of Truck Appointment system as adopted in the US. The system has also proved
to be quite successful in other cargo sectors with adoption at the Vancouver Airport
cargo complex where the appointment system coordinates with terminal and
trucking companies for efficient transfer of cargo and seamless movement of trucks.

Empirical evidence suggest that adoption of Truck Ticketing System can reduce the
indirect cost or delay by 15 to 20% and improve throughput of the terminals.




  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023         Page 139 of 148
Global Case Study 2: Green Logistics and E-Highways

Countries in the West are now becoming pro-active towards reducing carbon
emissions by adoption alternative systems and fuel technologies on freight carrying
systems.

Inland freight movements generally use road transport with road transport having a
good market share as compared to rail transport and waterways. Road freight
transport faces issues on account of increasing fuel costs, and sustainability.
Shifting road freight to transport modes with lower carbon emissions is a complex
undertaking that requires flexibility in both approach and solution.

The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) estimates that
the global freight volume will triple between 2000 and 2050. Only around one-third
of this additional volume can be moved by rail. As a result, CO2 emissions from
trucked freight are expected to double by 2050. In this scenario, ensuring that these
emissions are reduced as quickly as possible will require initiatives to be taken up
with high priority – especially in developing countries.

The European Commission has set an overall target of 55% for greenhouse gas
emission reduction by 2030. With an aim to reduce the significant amount of
greenhouse emissions, the European Commission came up with two concepts:
energy efficiency improvement and shift to alternate fuels.

One of the initiatives that has been piloted over the last few years is Electric
Highways (E-Highways) – where a lane is dedicated for movement of trucks which
can take electric supply using a pantograph and also on fuel). The technology has
been tested in pilot projects in Germany and Sweden.

The first E-Highway in Germany was commissioned in 2017 for a 10 km stretch
which is currently operational as part of first phase of a pilot project to determine
long-term viability. The project estimates that if 30% of the trucking industry adopt
e-vehicles, the country could avoid dumping extra 6 million tons of Co2 along with a
saving of $22,000 in annual fuel costs.



  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023         Page 140 of 148
Subsequently, two other corridors have been planned with e-highway in Germany.
Recently a pilot project at the Port of Los Angles was tested to carry freight traffic
using the E- Highway concept which is currently operational under a pilot model
stage with the aim to reducing carbon emission and logistics costs.




  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023         Page 141 of 148
Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023   Page 142 of 148
Annexure 4: Logistics Plan Investment Quantum
for identified three freight corridors in TN
The Integrated Logistics Plan outlines identified interventions, key performance
indicators (KPIs), timelines as well as key stakeholders’ responsible for their
implementation to effectively implement the Logistics Policy measures. The Plan
outlines interventions in the short to medium term (2-5 years) as well as the long
term (5-10 years) identified as per the initial study. As mentioned earlier, to align
with the emerging requirements as well as developments in the industry, the plan
will be updated on a rolling basis while also considering outcomes of identified
interventions and inputs from stakeholders.

The Plan initiatives and interventions includes ones that require investments for
infrastructure creation (trunk, terminal infrastructure as well as required inter-
modal connectivity), priority projects undertaken by government for improvement
of trade and fiscal incentives/supports as well as ones that are focused on enabling
process, regulations and due coordination. Below exhibit showcases the framework
for estimation of the envisaged first set of investments under the Logistics Plan.

An initial phase investment outlay of ~Rs. 62,541 Crores20 has presently been
estimated based on the assessment carried out for the identified three (2 EXIM, 1
Domestic) freight corridors in the State. The investment outlay will change on
addition of interventions as the plan is envisaged to be updated on rolling basis
considering emergence of new trends and requirements. Further it is also proposed
to conduct detailed study of other freight corridors in the State to identify additional
interventions and associated investments.

The Integrated Logistics Plan focuses on 50 interventions across the 6 policy
strategic themes over the next 10 years – covering envisaged interventions for
creation, augmentation and improvement of trunk and terminal infrastructure,
incentivisation/ fiscal support to various segments of the logistics industry as well


20
  The envisaged investment quantum is estimated considering industry benchmarks at 2022 prices excluding the cost of land as
applicable


     Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                                      Page 143 of 148
as capacity building. The investment outlay will change on addition of interventions
as the plan is envisaged to be updated on rolling basis considering emergence of new
trends and requirements.

                     Exhibit 29 Framework for estimation of investment quantum




The below Exhibit illustrates the estimated investment across key segments of the
logistics eco-system in the State.

      Exhibit 30: Estimated investment across key segments under the Plan (In Rs. Crore)

                         200 , 0%      350 ,
                                        1%      66 , 0%
                           180 , 0%                       3,420 , 6%



                                                          4,430 , 7%
                                                                       Agriculture Infrastructure

                                                                       Logistics and Ancillary Services

                                                                       Logistics Terminal & Warehousing
          26,945 , 43%
                                                                       Ports and Shipping

                                                                       Rail Infrastructure

                                                      26,950 , 43%     Road Infrastructure

                                                                       Airport Infrastructure

                                                                       Others




  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                           Page 144 of 148
    Exhibit 31: Potential sources of investment outlay envisaged for implementation of Plan
                                       initiatives (Rs. Crore)




                              8,890, 14%


                                                                               Joint Initiative


                                                                 25,570, 41%   State Government
                  9,000, 14%

                                                                               Central


                                                                               Public Private Partnership


                             19,081, 31%




Plan initiatives and interventions identified as being under the purview of the State
Government and its agencies have an envisaged investment outlay of ~Rs. 19,081
crore over the next 10 years. The Plan also covers initiatives that would need
involvement of the State Government and its agencies as well as Central
Government and its agencies – with such initiatives accounting for an investment
outlay of ~Rs. 25,570 crore.




  Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                              Page 145 of 148
 Abbreviations

AAI                      Airport Authority of India
ACCS                     Air Cargo Community System
AFS                      Air Freight Station
AFWD                     Agriculture and Farmer’s Welfare Department
APEDA                    Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority
ASSOCHAM                 The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India
BISAG                    Bhaskaracharya National Institute for Space Applications and Geo-
                         informatics
CAGR                     Compounded Annual Growth Rate
CBIC                     Chennai Bengaluru Industrial Corridor
CFS                      Container Freight Stations
CKIC                     Chennai Kanyakumari Industrial Corridor
CMDA                     Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority
CONCOR                   Container Corporation of India Ltd.
CF & CPD                 Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection Department
DFC                      Dedicated Freight Corridor
DPE                      Direct Port Entry
DTCP                     Directorate of Town and Country Planning
ECBC                     Energy Conservation Building Code
EXIM                     Export-Import
FAR                      Floor Area Ration
FICCI                    Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry
FOIS                     Freight Operations Information System
FTWZ                     Free Trade Warehousing Zone
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GIS                      Geographic Information System
GPS                      Global Positioning System
GSDP                     Gross State Domestic Product
GST                      Goods & Services Tax
GSVA                     Gross State Value Added
GVA                      Gross Value Added
ICD                      Inland Container Depots



 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                    Page 146 of 148
ICEGATE                  Indian Customs Electronic Gateway
IDTR                     Institute of Driving Training & Research
IEF                      Industrial Ecosystem Fund
IMS                      Integrated Management System
ISO                      International Organization for Standardization
KPI                      Key Performance Indicators
LDB                      Logistics Data Bank
LEADS                    Logistics Ease Across Different States
LEEP                     Logistics Efficiency Enhancement Programme
LPI                      Logistics Performance Index
MDA                      Ministries, Departments and Agencies
MEPZ                     Madras Export Processing Zone
MMLP                     Multi-modal Logistics Parks
MRO                      Maintenance, Repair, and Operations
MTPA                     Million Tonnes per Annum
NCAER                    National Council of Applied Economic Research
NHAI                     National Highways Authority of India
NICDIT                   National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust
NPG                      Network Planning Group
NRP                      National Rail Plan
OECD                     Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
OHSAS                    Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series
ORR                      Outer Ring Road
OSR                      Open Space Reservation
PCS                      Port Community System
PFT                      Private Freight Terminal
PHDCCI                   PHD Chambers of Commerce and Industry
PMMSY                    Pradhan Manttri Matsya Sampada Yojna
PPP                      Public Private Partnership
RFID                     Radio Frequency Identification
RTO                      Regional Transport Office
SIPCOT                   State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamilnadu Ltd.
TANGEDCO                 Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd.
TANSEED                  Tamil Nadu Startup Seed Grant Fund
TANSIDCO                 Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Ltd.
TIDCO                    Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Ltd.
TNLP                     Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy


 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                       Page 147 of 148
TNILP                    Tamil Nadu Integrated Logistics Plan
TNMB                     Tamil Nadu Maritime Board
TNSDC                    Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation
TNWC                     Tamil Nadu Warehousing Corporation
TSU                      Technical Support Unit
ULB                      Urban Local Body
ULIP                     Unified Logistics Interface Platform
USD                      United States Dollar
VOC                      V.O. Chidambaranar
WBCSD                    World Business Council for Sustainable Development




 Tamil Nadu Logistics Policy & Integrated Logistics Plan 2023                 Page 148 of 148
Tamil Nadu Integrated Logistics Policy & Plan (TNLP & TNILP) 2022   Page 149 of 152
