M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023
TT

Contents
1. Preamble cecssisesesescsscecsscssscessssessscesssetsscoassscsesenesassasssecanseesstesnsesaseseesaneas 2
2. Objectives of M-Sand/ Crushed Sand policy .......cscsssseseee 3
3. Characteristics of sources that could

be used for M-Sand/Crushed San .....cssssssesesesseseeneeseienes 4-5
4, Setting up of manufacturing

M-Sand/ Crushed Sand UNit......sssssssssessseeseseeseeeseeneneesseeneneneeenes 6-7
5. Process of M-Sand/Crushed Sand Manufacturing..........00 8-9
6. Quality Standards and control MeAaSUIES....eeeeeees 10-11

7. Usage of water in M-Sand/Crushed Sand
Manufacturing Units .....ccssssessesssseseseeeesesssesenessessaeanessesseseeeenenses 12

8. Disposal of waste and controlling
Of air and Water POLLUTION... csseseeseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeerneneeernenenenees 13

9. Usage of Recycled Aggregates (C&D waste) and

Recycled Concrete Aggregates (RCA) ..ssssssssssssessereseeneean 14
10; QUaTLY LeaSeSwiisiseiissisisiieisissnsiscaicieiniaiiscinsieicicenieteacsicaniamadiieieiasaiiaiets 15
11. Health and Safety of the WOrker.......:.:::sscseseeseseeeeeeeseeeneens 16
12. Star rating of Quarries/ Crusher Units .......csssssenees 17-18
13. Strengthening the legal frameWork .........ssssseseeseeeeeesees 19
14,  ZeTO tolerance ...eccseseesesseseeesesseneneseceneeeeceneseneneoeeneneneseereneneneoeanenees 20
15. Single Window Portal ......ccsessssestsseseaesseaesneassesesnsacsesseessneaeseenes 21
16. Monitoring and Evaluation of Policy Implementation.......... 22
17. Validity of the POolicy........sssssssesssssssseseseeessensesssieeeteneeeseineenenses 23

GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023

1. Preamble |

1.1

1.2

1.3

1.4

Rivers, Forests, Minerals and such other natural resources constitute a Nation’s
wealth. These resources are notto be frittered away and exhausted by one generation.
The principles of intergenerational equity are recognized world over, as one
generation of human kind has an obligation to conserve natural resources for the
benefit of succeeding generations.

M-Sand/Crushed Sand is produced by crushing rock quarry stones or larger
aggregate pieces into sand sized particles. The produced sand is then sieved
and washed to remove fine particles and impurities, and tested for various quality
aspects before it is deemed fit as a construction aggregate. The manufactured sand
(M-Sand)/Crushed Sand so produced is required to pass through 4.75 mm
IS Sieve and shall have the minimum required size of 150 microns.

Rampant sand mining and _ continuous’ depletion
of natural aggregates have led to the implementation
of new environmental/land use legislations which has
made river sand a scarce commodity. The Government of
Tamil Nadu considers M-Sand/Crushed Sand production
as an alternate to river sand for _ construction

activities and infrastructural development of the State.
M-Sand/Crushed Sand also helps to reduce the wastage of the
. quarrying process as_ the stones left, as _ small
sized blocks in the granite and roughstone
+ quarries could be used for the production of M-Sand/Crushed

Sand. The object of this policy is thus also to ensure zero waste
quarrying in the State. Low-value blocks/waste generated can be
utilized efficiently to create a high value product such as M-Sand/Crushed
Sand, while at the same time public will have access to cost effective
building material in comparison to the high cost river sand.

M-Sand/Crushed Sand also offers higher flexural strength, better abrasion
resistance, higher unit weight and lower permeability, if standards for manufacturing
are adopted properly. Due to these advantages M-Sand/Crushed Sand is being used

now a days on a large scale in the construction sector.
2

GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023

2. Objectives of M-Sand/
Crushed Sand policy

2.1 To prevent damage to river ecosystem by rationalizing the use of
river sand in a conserved manner.

2.2 To promote the usage of quality M-Sand/Crushed Sand having greater
compressive strength adhering to BIS prescribed standard, as an easy and
cost - effective alternate building material to river sand.

2.3 To enable M-Sand/Crushed Sand manufacturing units in Tamil Nadu
to become compliant of relevant statutes, rules and regulations and to
formalise the sectors.

2.4 To standardise the procedure for
approval of M-Sand/Crushed
Sand manufacturing units.

2.5 To hand hold stand-alone [@
crushing/manufacturing units F
who depend solely on the stone [
quarries for getting required raw
material.

2.6 To promote recycling of the coarse and fine aggregates in construction and
demolition waste of buildings/concrete structures and quarry waste in the State.

2.7 Promote zero-waste mining/quarrying in the State.

—_——_
GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023

3. Characteristics of sources that could
be used for M-Sand/Crushed Sand

The source materials used for the production of sand shall
not contain any harmful minerals or materials which may
adversely affect the properties, strength, durability and
appearance of the concrete/plaster and/or may cause
corrosion of metal lathing or other metal in contact with the
concrete/plaster above the permitted level.

3.1 Rocks/Natural Gravel/Granite Waste: The Rocks/ Natural
Gravel/ Granite Waste should not contain iron
pyrites, alkaline minerals, calcareous minerals, mica and other
flaky minerals, sulphates, salts, organic impurities above the
permitted level. Charnockite, Quartzite, Granite and Sandstone
1 are the best suited rock types available in Tamil Nadu for the
} manufacture of M-Sand/Crushed Sand.

3.2 Over Burden (having more than 60% sand): The
over Burden should not contain iron pyrites, alkaline
minerals, salts, sulphates, coal, lignite, mica, shale or similar
J laminated/flaky materials, soft fragments, calcareous
; minerals, sea shells and organic impurities above the
permitted level. Overburdens like Sandstone/Quartzite
deposits and over burden of lignite/silica
=| sand/gravel and pebble mines/quarries are best
suitable for the manufacture of M -Sand/Crushed Sand.

3.3 Coarse and fine aggregates from the Construction and Demolition (C&D) Waste (Re-
cycled Aggregates): The C&D waste (debris) viz., stone aggregates, brickbats, tile pieces,
mortar pieces, etc. should not contain excavated earth, wood pieces, plastic, metal bits
and shall be processed, i-e., crushed and sieved to bring it to proper gradation for utiliza-
tion as crushed sand.

3.4 Recycled Concrete Aggregates (RCA): Demolished or discarded cement concrete
(source concrete) comprising of the stone aggregates (coarse aggregate) which were
used for preparing demolished or discarded cement concrete (source concrete) shall not

contain brickbats, tile pieces, glass, etc. and are to be crushed and size graded.

4
eee

GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
Geology of Tamil Nadu - Occurrences of rocks suitable for M-Sand

KARNATAKA

40 AVA

IVONGA

“M. -Mllll Sand stone

(mm Granite

(=) #Fuchsite quartzite,

Magnetite quartzite, etc

Peninsular gneissic complex:
Quartzo feldspathic gneiss

= Charnockite Group

@ Khondalite Group:
5 Quartzite

M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023

4. Setting up of manufacturing M-Sand/
Crushed Sand unit

4.1 As on 04.07.2022, 378 Crushed Stone Sand Manufacturing units are functioning
in the State of Tamil Nadu after obtaining the Product Quality Approval
Certificate from the Chairman, Assessment Committee & Engineer-In-Chief,
Chief Engineer (General) & Chief Engineer, Chennai Region, Public Works
Department (PWD), Chennai and with the Consent to Establish and Consent
to Operate obtained from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB).
The M-Sand/ Crushed Sand units currently operating in the State can be broadly
classified into two groups:

a. Integrated Units- Integrated units
are owned and operated by persons }
who hold operational stone quarry leases.

b. Stand Alone Units- Units are owned or |
operated by persons who do not hold
valid stone quarry leases.

4.2 Setting up of a unit: All Crusher
Units including M-Sand/ Crushed Sand units
shall be registered with the Directorate of |
Industrial Safety and Health under the
Factories Act, 1948. Integrated or Standalone

M-Sand Units that meets the existing criteria of TNPCB (available in
TNPCB website - tnpcb.gov.in) will only be allowed
to establish/ operate the unit. The units. shall be _ established
only after obtaining Consent to Establish (CTE) and operation shall be
started only after obtaining Consent to Operate (CTO) from
TNPCB. Thereafter, the unit holder shall obtain the Product Quality
Approval Certificate for Crushed Sand /M-Sand products from the Public Works
Department.

EE ————————————
GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023
rr

All existing M-Sand/Crushed Sand manufacturing units shall be provided with a
one-time offer to convert to Vertical Shaft Impactor or such other equivalent
advanced technologies enhancing the quality of M-Sand or Crushed Sand
produced and get themselves registered under the Tamil Nadu Prevention
of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage of Minerals an
Mineral Dealers Rules, 2011 within such period as may _ be
prescribed by the Department of Geology and Mining/Public Works
Department.

For registration under the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Illegal Mining,
Transportation and Storage of Minerals and Mineral Dealers Rules, 2011,
production of valid extracts of the village accounts issued by
the Tahsildar is sufficient. No other documents/records shall be insisted
upon. In this connection, necessary provisions will be incorporated in the rules.

—_——_
GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023

5. Process of M-Sand/Crushed Sand Manufacturing |

Manufacturing process of M-Sand /Crushed Sand involves the crushing of hard rocks,
Natural Gravel, Granite Waste and Over Burden into a stipulated size of 4.75mm to
150 microns. The process is similar to the generation of river sand by nature. The Ver-
tical Shaft Impact (VSI) functions on the basis of rock on rock collision at a high ve-
locity to produce sand sized particles. The sand obtained through this process is
further refined through sieving and washing.

Manufacturing process:

Rock extraction by blasting to medium sized stones at quarry

site

4

Preliminary separation in primary separator viz., GRIZZLY

screens

i

Primary Crusher crushes the rocks in to 40 mm aggregates

1

Secondary Crusher crushes the 40 mm aggregates in to

20 mm and below aggregates and passed through

vibrator screen

Oversized
materials

crushed again

Vertical Shaft Impactor (VSI) for cubical shaping and
further reduced into below 4.75 mm and passed through

vibrator screen

|

Washing Plant washes the sand and screens
particles above 150 microns automatically Oversized
materials
| crushed again
M- sand(150 microns to 4.75mm)
Waste

EE ————————————
GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023
eC

Manufacturing process:

Jaw Crusher Secondary Jaw Crusher

ae
med

VSI Bunker with Feeder 150 cone with vibrator
(Less than 24mm) screen (optional) 40mm)

VSI Feeding Conveyor

VSI (Less than 10mm) Vibrator Screen (Less Washing & Sludge
Than 4.5mm) Removal

Transportation Processed M-sand M-Sand Conveyor Processed m-sand &

p-sand

GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023

6. Quality Standards and control measures

Ensuring the safety for the life and property is the primary duty of the State and
hence the State Government is bound to take all possible measures to ensure the
supply of quality, cost - effective building materials for construction activities.
For this purpose,

6.1 The best suitable deposits of rocks viz. charnockite group of rocks,
quartzite, etc. and overburden for the manufacture of
M-Sand/ Crushed Sand will be identified through sample studies by conducting
petrographical, mineralogical, geophysical and
geochemical investigations using suitable
advanced techniques/instruments.

6.2. All M-Sand/ Crushed Sand manufacturers
will be required to adhere to the standards/
specifications in the BIS code viz.,
‘IS 383:2016’for concrete, “IS 1542:1992” for

Plastering and “IS  2116:1980”
for masonry and “IS 456:2000” for wash
water and such other standards fixed by
the BIS from time to time.

6.3. The M-Sand/ Crushed Sand for
concrete/masonry and plastering 4

as well as the wash water shall satisfy the relevant standards
stipulated by the BIS for checking the quality of aggregates and wash water. In
this connection,

a) All the M-Sand/ Crushed Sand manufacturers shall mandatorily obtain
BIS certification for their products.

b) ~All the M-Sand/Crushed Sand manufacturers shall obtain Product Approval
Certificate issued from the Public Works Department for the compliance

of BIS Code provisions.
10

EE ————————————
GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023

c) All the M-Sand/Crushed Sand
manufacturers shall mandatorily
establish a quality testing
laboratory at their crusher premises
and randomly check the quality of
the M-Sand/Crushed Sand produced

by them every day and maintain
registers for the quality checks with details of all the parameters

as per the BIS standards in respect of the samples tested.
Such registers will be verified by the _ officers of
Department of Geology & Mining and Public Works Department.

d) Once in six months, all the M-Sand/Crushed Sand manufacturers shall
mandatorily conduct Quality test for the product as well as for wash
water at the NABL certified/ Public Works Department /
Department of Geology and Mining/University laboratories and submit the
report to the Public Works Department / Department of Geology and

Mining/ Pollution Control Board.

e) All the M-Sand/Crushed Sand
manufacturers shall adhere to the
standard manufacturing procedure
and use only the Vertical Shaft
Impactor (VSI) or such other
equivalent advanced technologies
to produce M-Sand/Crushed Sand.

Vertical Shaft Impactor (VSI)

6.4 Officers of Public Works Department / Department of Geology and
Mining will be entrusted to conduct periodical checks to verify the
quality of the product and the Officers of Tamil Nadu
Pollution Control Board will be monitoring the wash water quality
and pollution control measures periodically.

11

—_——_
GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023

7. Usage of water in M-Sand/
Crushed Sand Manufacturing Units

7.1 | M-Sand/Crushed Sand Manufacturing Units shall ensure that the water
used for washing sand shall not contain any harmful materials which
affects the properties, the strength and the durability of
the concrete, plastering or masonry works or may cause corrosion
of metal lathing or other metal in contact with the
concrete/plaster such as alkalies, sulphates, salts, organic
impurities etc., above the permitted level.

7.2 Considering the need for conservation of water resources, judicious use
of water will be insisted without compromising the
quality of washing the M-Sand /Crushed Sand. M-Sand/Crushed
Sand Manufacturing Units will be required to re-use the water used
for washing after necessary treatment.

7.3. The State will progressively ensure that these units will operate on Zero Liquid
Discharge basis.

12

EE ————————————
GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023

8. Disposal of waste and
controlling of air and water pollution

8.1 Crushing units should not be allowed to endanger the environment and ecology of the
surrounding area by chaotic disposal of the wastes generated during the stone
crushing for the production of size reduced materials such as M-Sand/Crushed
Sand.

8.2 The waste generated from the crushing Fm
units viz. unsized rock particles,

defective crushed stone products, [
muddy slurry, etc., shall be disposed of
in a scientific and systematic manner.
The waste can be utilised for other value

added products like bricks and other purposes. The wash water shall be scientifically
treated and reused. Minimal waste water discharge shall be maintained, conforming
to the prescribed standards before disposing into environment or for re-use.

8.3. The State will be vigilant to prevent the pf
use of defective crushed stone
products, dried mud _ slurry etc.
in place of sand for the fine or f
coarse aggregates or mixing them with f
the standard products for civil |

construction in concrete, masonry or plastering works. If any such
adulteration/malpractices are noticed, those who are responsible for the
same will be penalised by cancelling the license. Provisions for the same
will be incorporated in the appropriate rules.

8.4 It will be ensured that all M-Sand units have necessary air pollution control
measures as prescribed in the consent order issued by TNPCB under Air Act and
operate and maintain the same to meet the standards prescribed by TNPCB.

8.5 Also, it will be ensured that all M-Sand units have necessary effluent treatment plant
as prescribed in the consent order issued by TNPCB under Water Act and shall
operate and maintain the same to meet the standards prescribed by TNPCB.

13

GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
The studies to evolve best suitable technologies for the utilisation of Recycled
Aggregates (C&D waste) and Recycled Concrete Aggregates (RCA) in various
construction activities related to buildings, roads and other infrastructure
will be encouraged for safe and scientific disposal of such waste as well as to reuse the
material enabling to minimize the damages caused to the environment.

No quarry leases_ will be granted’ exclusively for manufacturing
M-Sand / Crushed sand.

15

11.1 Preventive measures shall be taken against occupational Health Hazards,
especially lung diseases such as Silicosis in the vicinity of quarries and
crushing units.

11.2 All the quarry workers shall be registered under Construction Workers’
Welfare Board so as to get the benefits extended by the Board.

16
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023

12. Star rating of Quarries/ Crusher Units |

The environment and socio-economic-issues in the mining sector are the paramount
concern of the State which need to be addressed by institutionalising a
statutory mechanism for sustainable mining/quarrying. In this connection,

12.1 An appropriate Sustainable
Development framework for
the minor mineral quarries and
mineral based industries such
as Crusher Units will be
evolved and implemented in the
State for addressing the issues.

12.2 In order to encourage the minor
mineral lessees / crusher owners
to adopt the Sustainable Development
Framework (SDF) envisaged by
the State Government, a
‘Star Rating’ system will be
instituted in which star rating will
be awarded to the mining lessees
for their efforts and_ initiatives
taken for the implementation of SDF.

12.3. One to five stars will be given to the quarries /crusher units with five star
being allotted to the best performing quarries/crusher units which have
been operated for at least 180 days and their average daily
employment is 15 employees or more.

12.4 The Star rating system will be designed to evaluate the compliance
mechanism for environment and _ forest safeguards, conservation
of water, measures taken for health, safety and welfare of workers,
protection of boundary pillars of the lease/adherence of production limits,
compliance of terms and conditions of the lease/ registration of crushers,
filing of returns, obtaining of necessary clearances from
Government Departments/ Agencies, rectification of the violations, if any,

17
P|

GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
M-SAND or CRUSHED SAND POLICY - 2023
eS

pointed out by the Government agencies, compliance
of Act and Rules, court directions etc. with a specified marking criterion
for each parameter.

12.5 Only those who obtain 60% of the total marks will be eligible for Star Rating.
The owners of the quarries /crusher units have to make a
self-assessment in the prescribed templates created for the purpose
which will be verified by a committee constituted for the purpose under
the Chairmanship of the District Collector and Convenorship of
District Environmental Engineer, TNPCB with Sub _ Collector/
the Revenue Divisional Officer of the Revenue Division concerned,
Deputy Director/Assistant Director of Geology and Mining,
Executive Engineer, PWD and Mine Safety Officer as the other members.
Third-party verification will be done.

GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
The ecosystem of the M-Sand/ Crushed Sand manufacturing units and the
quarrying of minerals will be facilitated through strengthening the existing legal
framework for the purpose. Necessary amendments will be made in the relevant rules.
The process of establishment of M-Sand/Crushed Sand manufacturing units will be
enabled through the State Single Window Portal. A separate portal will be created for
Directorate of Geology and Mining to enable online filing of all returns and reports.

19

Any contravention of the rules framed based on this policy will warrant action under the

prevailing laws and cancellation of license.

20

A Single window portal will be developed and maintained by the Department of
Geology and Mining for the registration, etc., of M-Sand / Crushed Sand Units

21

Implementation of this Policy will be reviewed by the Industries, Investment
Promotion and Commerce and Department of Geology and Mining in Government.

A centralized controlling system will be developed to monitor the activities
of the M-Sand/Crushed Sand units.

A complaint registering mechanism will be implemented to facilitate the stake holders,

especially benefiting the consumers to register their complaints or grievances directly to
the Departments concerned.

22
The Policy will be valid from its date of notification by the Government.

23

Department of Geology and Mining
Head Office: Alandur Road,
Guindy Industrial Estate, Guindy,
Chennai-600032,
Tamil Nadu.

Phone: +044 22501158

E-mail: geomine@nic.in
Website: www.tnmines.tn.gov.in
‘TAMIL NADU

