GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU



  TAMIL NADU
      R&D
   POLICY 2022
          GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




             TAMIL NADU
             R&D POLICY
                       2022




Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce Department
                  Government of Tamil Nadu
Contents
1. Preamble                 1

2. Objectives               9

3. Fostering Linkages       10

4.Incentives                14

5.Enhancing Human Capital   18

6.MSME and Startups         20

7.Funding Avenues           21

8.Implementation            23

Annexures I - Eligibility   24
    1. Preamble
    1.1. Introduction
    Research & Development (R&D) enables innovation in developing new knowledge, techniques, and
    technologies that increase productivity and consequently spur long-run economic growth globally.
    Tamil Nadu is among the top three states in India in R&D, and has evolved into a human capital hub
    that services not only the nation but also the world. This can be attributed to its targeted human
    capital policy that encompasses progressive schemes for education, health, social welfare, and
    dedicated industrial policies to boost manufacturing.


    The tremendous growth in Engineering Research and Development (ER&D) over the last decade has
    led to innovation across sectors and industries. World leaders in the manufacturing and services
    sectors are investing heavily in R&D to achieve competitiveness and production efﬁciency in the
    international market. Innovation and digital disruption in advanced manufacturing have further
    altered the global supply chains and facilitated improved interface with the end-users. Among various
    segments of engineering R&D, the automotive segment and designing accounted for the largest
    market share in 2019 in the global market.


    In the global race for innovation, Tamil Nadu has proved to be a leading destination for R&D and
    innovation. Globally technology exports              are dominated by pharmaceutical products,
    high-performance computers, aerospace, scientiﬁc instruments, and electric machinery. Innovation
    in sectors like FinTech, clean energy systems, biotechnology, precision medicine, genomics, electric
    vehicles and components, smart grids, and semiconductors, has resulted in higher R&D in advanced
    technologies. Areas like analytics, artiﬁcial intelligence, and machine learning contribute to greater
    efﬁciencies. Therefore, the State has a huge opportunity to foster innovation and increase productivity
    in the above mentioned areas given its strength in segments such as automobiles, heavy machinery,
    and electronics led by its highly-skilled workforce.


    The frontiers of R&D are far-reaching and ever-expanding, which provides an opportunity for Tamil
    Nadu to attract R&D investments in the State.




1
1.2. Advantage Tamil Nadu
Tamil Nadu is one of the most advanced and admired economies in India. It offers a host of
advantages in terms of human capital, knowledge and research infrastructure, diversiﬁed economy,
and favourable investment climate. These are enlisted below:


  • It is a knowledge capital with 59 universities, 2639 colleges, 860 standalone institutes, 200 central
    and state research institutes, 2 central universities, and 7 institutes of national importance.


  • It is among the top three states in the national innovation index where it ranks third in knowledge
    output, second in knowledge diffusion, and ﬁrst in human capital.


  • Accounting for a 9% share, it has the second highest State R&D expenditure in the country.


  • It has 9 lakh students graduating from various levels such as PhD, M Phil, Post-Graduate,
   Graduate, and Diploma. In the India Innovation Report 2020, it is ranked number one in Human
   Capital with 100% score in enrolment in engineering and technology.


  • It is one of the few states to have more female researchers than male researchers (PhD, M.Phil.,
    and Post-graduates).


  • With the aim of serving the community, the State has proactive innovation focussed govermental
    institutions such as Tamil Nadu Scientiﬁc Research Organization (TNSRO), Tamil Nadu State
    Council for Science and Technology, and Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Mission (TANSIM).


  • It is home to various research parks, innovation hubs and Centres of Excellences (CoEs), and 80+
    Fortune 500 companies.


  • Chennai has the lowest real estate costs compared to other cities such as Bengaluru, Delhi-NCR,
    Pune, and Hyderabad.


  • Tamil Nadu is amongst the top 10 in case of availability of employable talent, employability,
   preferred state to work, and where maximum hiring occurs.


  • It is one of Asia’s most preferred investor destinations anchoring 9% of Foreign Direct Investment
    in India since 2000 and has tremendous investment potential.


  • It is the ﬁrst state to publish an Artiﬁcial Intelligence Policy and a Blockchain Policy.


  • Has extensive network of testing and certiﬁcation labs to support quality exports; 734 NABL
   accredited labs in Tamil Nadu (3rd highest nationally).


  • Provides strong institutional support to non-industrial and interdisciplinary research in areas
   related to Agriculture, Health and Medical Science, Infrastructure, and Social Sciences.




                                                                                                            2
                            Box 1: Research and Innovation
    Identification of Input and Output
    Research and development (R&D) comprises creative and systematic work undertaken in order to
    increase the stock of knowledge – including knowledge of humankind, culture and society – and to
    devise new applications of available knowledge. While one invests resources in R&D to create
    knowledge, innovation creates an economic value out of this knowledge. Even though the amount of
    R&D spending by the State and businesses are the most important factor in the innovation
    ecosystem, not every R&D outcome can be termed as innovation. Traditionally, the impact of R&D
    spending on innovation has been assumed to be linear. But chain-linked model (Kline Model)
    suggests that the process of innovation involves various stages, starting from the market signalling
    the utility of the product, reverse engineering, designing, production, and ﬁnally marketing. The
    entire process comprises feedback loops from the market and within the organization, creating
    opportunities for research resulting in process and product innovation at every stage. Hence, the
    Policy recognizes innovation of both products and processes as expected outcomes of the Policy.


    It is important for the State to monitor both inputs and proxies for innovation. While the existing
    literature proposes measures such as patents, publications, technology transfers, and spin-offs as
    proxies of innovation, measures such as R&D contract volume, R&D budget, and the number of
    researchers and scientists are considered inputs.


    Factors - Inputs
    Innovation is explained by the technological capability of a society. Technological capability is further
    a function of various inputs such as the access to international technology transfer, institutional
    endowment (Education, Culture and Governance), R&D investment by the government and
    businesses, learning by internalization, and examining current market trends, and customer
    preferences.

    Output
    There are multiple ways of measuring the output depending on the ownership, funding source, and
    agenda. For instance, an R&D project focused on process improvement might not generate a patent
    but may publish its results in a journal citing increased productivity and efﬁciency. Government of
    Tamil Nadu will track publications, patents, industrial designs by origin, trademark applications,
    number of citations, and ICT exports, as a measure of innovation.


    Tamil Nadu offers a unique platform to research what’s so far un-researched; develop what has not yet
    been developed; and make marketable what has not yet been sold.




                                                                                  Naushad Forbes (2022)
3
1.3. Industry 4.0 and Evolution of GCCs
It is widely accepted that we are in the age of Industry 4.0. However, in order to fully appreciate the
context and extent of the new-age cyber-physical systems, it is important to understand the journey,
interlinkages with globalisation, and the way forward.


The First Industrial Revolution began in the 18th century through the use of steam power and
mechanisation of production. The Second Industrial Revolution began in the 19th century through the
discovery of electricity and assembly line production moving into mass production that was
signiﬁcantly faster and at a lower cost. The Third Industrial Revolution was a 20th century
phenomenon that began in the 1970s through partial automation using computers and got
accelerated during the 1990s with widespread adoption of information and communication
technology. The world has presently shifted gears into the Fourth Industrial Revolution, which is
characterised by the application of information and communication technologies to industry and is
also known as "Industry 4.0". This builds on production systems that already have computers by
adding it on to a network to communicate with other facilities, leading to "cyber-physical production
systems" and “smart factories”, where production systems, components, and people communicate
via a network and production can become autonomous. Industry 4.0 is driven by an amalgamation of
emerging technologies like enhanced computational power, Internet of Things (IoT), business
analytics, augmented reality, artiﬁcial intelligence, elemental design, simulation, advanced robotics,
additive manufacturing, and sensor based technologies.


The globalisation journey can be understood through the paradigm of unbundling1 . For centuries,
much before the invention of steam engine, trade was a way to realise proﬁts when relative prices
differed across countries. Thus, globalisation was ﬁrst created by goods crossing borders. This was the
ﬁrst unbundling – the geographic separation of production and consumption. From the 1990s, with
the advent of information and communication technology, globalisation was furthered by knowledge
crossing borders, which meant manufacturing could also cross borders to capitalise on the wage
difference. This was the second unbundling – the geographic separation of stages of production. This
was disruptive for the world as it forged global supply chains for manufacturing. However, offshoring
of services also emerged as a lucrative opportunity as technology reduced the barriers to wage
arbitrage in the services sector. This is the third unbundling – the geographic separation of labour and
labour services. Concepts such as Future of Work and Smart Factory which were highlighted during
the pandemic can be explained as the acceleration of the third unbundling.


In 1990s, Tamil Nadu saw a simultaneous trend of growth of mass production assembly lines (Third
Industrial Revolution) through global value chains for goods (second bundling) and the growth of
offshoring in services (second unbundling). The journey of offshoring in services (presently GCCs)
began with the multi-national companies (MNCs) setting up captives that operated as resource
centres. This reduced the cost of ownership of certain business functions and/or provided resources
that helped the parent MNC scale its operations. Between 2000 and 2010, the role of services
offshoring evolved to Business Process Outsourcing/ Knowledge Process Outsourcing (BPO/KPO),
which functioned as quality centres to prove quality of modular products and services through
process standardization and optimization. From 2010 onwards, the role expanded to a Shared Services
Centre (SSC) or Global Business Centre (GBS) or Centre of Excellence that functioned as a delivery
centre, where a parent MNC leveraged the captive to manage an end-to-end delivery of global
products through improved coordination with the parents and other centres. It provided increased
breadth and depth and coverage of services. This role further evolved to the present mandate of a
Global Capability Centre (GCC) where the focus is on innovation for the parent MNC’s business,
conceptualization, design, and delivery of new products stemming from a global skills’ hub for the
enterprise and transitioning from a traditional cost centre to a centre with the potential of generating

                                     1. Baldwin, Richard E. Globalisation: The Great Unbundling (s). No. BOOK. Economic Council of Finland, 2006.   4
    revenue impact. While traditional functions of GCCs will continue to provide efﬁciencies, GCCs will be
    more of “Digital Transformation Centres” and “Innovation Centres” for global businesses. However,
    these are further expected to evolve into Global Intelligence Centres (GIC) which will serve as a market
    expansion centre for local market expansion and management of strategic local partnerships with
    integrated governance management of capability centre ecosystems.


    In this context, GCCs are not new to Tamil Nadu and have been present in the State for nearly three
    decades in its earlier avatars. The growth and evolution of GCCs is important in the current context of
    R&D as Engineering R&D has a 55% market share in GCCs in India. India’s Engineering R&D GCC talent
    pool grew at over 11% CAGR during FY 2015-21 on the back of digital transformation. The focus has
    shifted to product innovation, engineering design, and R&D. Banking, ﬁnancial services and
    insurance (BFSI) and Professional Services ﬁrms have started expanding their scope to cover research,
    underwriting, and consulting. Some global MNCs that now have large GCCs in India are Apple,
    Microsoft, Google, Nissan, Ford, Qualcomm, Cisco, Wells Fargo, Bank of America, Barclays, Standard
    Chartered, and KPMG. Tamil Nadu has around 150 GCCs with different industrial domains such as
    Ford, Caterpillar, Daimler, Renault Nissan, World Bank, Shell, PayPal, Verizon, AstraZeneca, Walmart,
    Bosch, Philips, Citi, Mr. Cooper (formerly known as Nation Star Mortgage). In Tamil Nadu, a
    manufacturing hub, the R&D ecosystem is driven by the industry. Many of the GCCs located in Tamil
    Nadu also have a manufacturing presence in the State. Hence, R&D Centres and GCCs are highly
    interlinked in Tamil Nadu.


    In the post-COVID world, the boundaries between manufacturing and services are getting blurred
    further, and business models are getting transformed to take advantage of the digital age. As R&D
    Centres focusing on Industry 4.0 meet GCCs in the third unbundling of globalisation, with the
    capability of delivering high technology at cost effective wages (as compared to the parent MNC
    headquarters), the prospects of high-value jobs for Tamil Nadu are manifold. While the nature of R&D
    ﬁrms in manufacturing and GCCs are sometimes different, the objectives and policy levers to promote
    R&D and innovation are aligned. In that context, R&D ﬁrms and GCCs are two facets of industrial
    revolution and globalisation with a shared origin. Cognizant of the differences and similarities
    between them, Tamil Nadu, through this Policy, would focus on harnessing the potential of
    successfully creating a footprint of R&D ﬁrms and GCCs in the State.


    1.4. Value Proposition
    Global spending on R&D in 2018 was US$ 2.233 trillion. While India’s share in Global R&D is only at US$
    58 million (PPP US dollars), the nation’s gross expenditure in R&D has trebled between 2008 and 2018.
    With the evolution of scientiﬁc R&D policies at national and state level, India’s per capita R&D spend
    has increased by 62% from 2007-08 to 2017-18 and India ranks 3rd in terms of number of PhDs
    awarded in Science and Engineering, behind the US and China. The global engineering R&D services
    outsourcing market is largely explained by the automotive industry with a market share of 21% (as of
    2019), mainly comprising the designing segment. Other key segments in global engineering R&D are
    telecommunication, aerospace, consumer electronics, pharmaceutical, construction, semiconductor,
    and computing systems. India’s engineering R&D market is expected to grow at a compounded
    annual growth rate (CAGR) of 12-13% to touch USD 63 billion by 2025. Tamil Nadu houses 9.5% of total
    R&D institutions in the country, with a slightly larger share of private sector R&D institutes, estimated
    at 11.5%. It is estimated that the State has around 150 Global Capability Centres, with largest
    contribution from cities such as Chennai and Coimbatore.


    The main value proposition of GCCs for Tamil Nadu is employment creation of high value jobs. GCCs
    were estimated to employ more than 1.3 million people as of FY 2020 in India. GCCs sector can
    potentially scale up to $60-85 billion in the next ﬁve-six years, according to a NASSCOM-Deloitte

5
6
    report. The number of employees in GCCs has grown by 75% (from 7,50,000), whereas overall revenues
    have expanded by 11% CAGR from $19.4 billion in 2014-15. About 20% of the growth in centres come
    from new organizations.

    Given that more than half the GCCs are engineering R&D ﬁrms, and Tamil Nadu is an established
    industrial hub, the State shall focus on R&D ﬁrms and GCCs to achieve higher value creation in output
    and employment.

    1.5. Need for the Policy
    Long-run per capita economic growth is driven by productivity growth, which in turn is driven by
    investments in education and research, and competition in product markets. The State recognizes
    the complexities in the innovation process and increasing competition; this furthers the need for a
    separate R&D policy. The following factors reﬂect the aspirations of the State for encouraging R&D:

       • To move up the value chain in manufacturing and capitalise the economic opportunities created
         by the evolution of manufacturing and value-added services by encouraging product
         development in R&D centres & GCCs
       • To increase supply of scientists and researchers, and catalyse creation of high-value jobs and its
         retention in the State
       • To create a conducive ecosystem for R&D that is competitive nationally and globally
       • To encourage R&D and innovation in the private sector for socio-economic development
       • To address information asymmetry, accelerate intellectual property generation and improve
         probability of commercialisation
       • To monitor the R&D performance and outcomes in the State


    1.6. Scope of the Policy
    Science is built on exploration that converts information into knowledge. Engineering drives
    invention by converting knowledge into utility. Design is critical for communication and converts this
    utility into cultural behaviour and social context. Art derives from expression that takes this cultural
    behaviour and questions the perception of the world. All these disciplines are interconnected, and the
    output of one can feed as an input to another. There is a ﬂow of creativity across all disciplines that
    enables innovation. A comprehensive and interdisciplinary approach is required to encourage R&D in
    the State. This requires a shift from compartmentalised paradigm (where primary, secondary, and
    tertiary sectors are viewed as different sectors of the economy), to a cohesive view of the economy
    driven by integrated manufacturing and services as the lines between these traditional paradigms
    become blurred. Hence, the scope of this Policy shall include ﬁrms that are engaged in R&D centres
    in core manufacturing as well as Global Capability Centres.


    Further, this Policy shall encourage R&D with a commercial potential - the process also known as
    ‘valorisation of research’. The State shall encourage valorisation of all aspects of research - basic,
    applied or experimental, through which research is made more accessible and usable by society at
    large. In the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021, the State had recognised Focus and Sunrise sectors as
    the engines of future growth. This Policy adopts a challenge-driven approach to identify R&D that
    serves societal challenges and caters to developmental opportunities. The scope of this Policy shall be
    limited to R&D projects undertaken by private companies and research institutes independently, or
    in partnership with private companies that are in Focus and Sunrise Sectors, and are aligned to the
    Grand Challenges.




7
Grand Challenges
The State is keen on promoting R&D in projects that have a direct social impact. The following Grand
Challenges are aligned with the vision and priorities of the State:
  1) Clean Energy
  2) Sustainable and Advanced Manufacturing
  3) Health, Well-being, and Life Sciences
  4) Future of Mobility
  5) Digital and Data Economy


Focus and Sunrise Sectors
Sunrise sectors have a high potential for growth, diversiﬁcation and investment, and often are R&D
intensive. This Policy shall also focus on Focus Sectors such as Financial Services, Hardware and
Software Products.


The terms and deﬁnitions in the existing implementation guidelines of Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy
2021/ Tamil Nadu MSME Policy 2021 shall apply to this policy, wherever applicable.


1.7. Policy Term
The Tamil Nadu R&D Policy shall come into effect from the date of issue of Government Order and will
be valid for a period of ten years or until a new policy is announced, whichever is earlier.




                                                                                                       8
2. Objectives
2.1. Vision
Transform Tamil Nadu into a knowledge-based economy by 2030, driving manufacturing and service

excellence.


2.2. Mission
    • Increase the inputs to R&D, including the number of researchers and scientists


    • Increase the outputs for innovation, such as patents and publications.


    • Develop a synergetic innovation ecosystem of research parks, research centres, centres of excellence,
      and innovation hubs.


    • Promote R&D in private sector by targeting new indigenous R&D performing ﬁrms in both
     manufacturing and service sectors such as GCCs, stimulating greater R&D investment in R&D
     performing ﬁrms, encouraging ﬁrms that do not yet perform R&D, and supporting public-private
     collaboration in R&D centres and GCCs.


2.3. Goals
To double the R&D expenditure in the State from the Government, Higher Education, & Private Sector by
2030.

2.4. Programmatic Approach & Policy Mix
The State shall adopt a programme-based approach by designing and implementing, or supporting
strategic projects or program aimed at achieving a large-scale impact on society. Such an approach
provides ﬂexibility to various departments of the Government with respect to the choice of measures to be
adopted in order to achieve the objectives.

Further, R&D can be encouraged only through a cohesive policy framework. The existing State policies such
as the Industrial Policy, Information Communication Technology Policy, Data Centre Policy, FinTech Policy,
Electronic Hardware Policy, MSME Policy, Start-up & Innovation Policy, Artiﬁcial Intelligence Policy,
Blockchain Policy, Cybersecurity Policy, and Electric Vehicle Policy recognize the importance of R&D in
various sectors of the economy and endeavour to support businesses in investing in R&D through ﬁscal
support and facilitation. The Tamil Nadu R&D Policy adds to this policy mix of industrial and technology
policies that collectively aim to foster R&D and innovation using both, sectoral and broad-based policy
levers.


The growing policy mix will focus not only on core manufacturing R&D, but also services, and related
product development, and process efﬁciencies in the State, with the aim of moving to a higher part of the
IT/ITeS value chain, and ensuring that other industries make a smooth transition to digitization.
Speciﬁcally, in this Policy, the broad-based policy levers are- fostering linkages between industry, academia
and the Government, incentives for the private sector, human capital interventions, support for start-ups
and MSMEs, and funding. With this Policy, the State has adopted an agile, programme-based, and a
challenge-driven approach to creating an innovation policy mix.




9
3. Fostering Linkages
A successful innovation ecosystem is an outcome of strong linkages among academia, industry, and
government. To further strengthen these linkages, the Government of Tamil Nadu shall undertake
concerted efforts through the creation of knowledgFe infrastructure, developing platforms for
collaboration on Industries 4.0, preparing a future-ready workforce, establishing centres of excellence,
facilitating international collaboration, and organising promotional events to recognise and encourage
R&D.


3.1. Knowledge Infrastructure
a) Innovation Clusters
Tamil Nadu has an excellent innovation ecosystem in academic institutions, national, and state research
laboratories. In order to enhance the synergy and collaboration between these and external stakeholders
like relevant government departments, industry partners, start-ups, MSMEs, philanthropic foundations,
think-tanks and non-proﬁt or non-governmental organisations, the State shall develop Innovation
Clusters across the State, anchored by an academic or research institute. The cluster will create a shared
ecosystem by developing high-end labs with shared access, enabling mobility of research within and
across clusters, and cultivating a talent pool for high quality jobs. Aligned with Tamil Nadu’s mission of
harnessing the State’s skilled human resources for economic development and enabling balanced
regional development, these Innovation Clusters will partner with incubators and stakeholders in the




                                                                                                         10
     region to become a decentralised knowledge hub for solving challenges that have a high local
     impact. As the clusters scale and develop recognition for international collaboration, this
     cluster-based development of innovation has the potential to unlock competitiveness for the State
     globally.



     b) Hi-Tech Corridor
     Tamil Nadu has adopted a corridor and node-based development model for investment growth that
     is built on infrastructure development. The State is already developing industrial corridors such as
     Chennai-Bengaluru       Industrial   Corridor,  Chennai-Kanyakumari       Industrial   Corridor,   the
     Kochi-Coimbatore-Bengaluru and the Defence Industrial Corridor, that enables spending on
     infrastructure allocated to certain nodes or regions. A dedicated Hi-Tech Corridor shall be dovetailed
     in the industrial corridors with the Innovation Clusters as nodes. This will enhance the coordination
     among various nodes comprising industries, universities, and research institutes engaged in
     manufacturing and R&D. These shall connect existing and upcoming nodes of innovation clusters
     catering to sunrise sectors such as Chennai, Sriperumbudur, Hosur and Coimbatore.



     c) Knowledge City
     As a pioneering initiative aligned with the State’s mission of creating a future-ready workforce for
     high-value jobs, the Government of Tamil Nadu will establish a Knowledge City through international
     collaboration. The City will bring together high-calibre universities and educational institutes of
     national and international prominence. Striving to create an ecosystem of excellence in learning and
     human resource management, the City will also have skills training centres and attract R&D centres
     in ICT and manufacturing. The students will graduate with internationally recognised degrees,
     certiﬁcations and diplomas, strengthening Tamil Nadu’s position as a provider of high-quality human
     capital for the nation and the world.



     d) Research Parks
     One of the most successful models of an innovation hub, the IIT-M Research Park was ﬁrst
     implemented in Tamil Nadu. Research Parks serve as a key enabler of innovation and accelerator of
     human capital formation in a knowledge economy. The Government of Tamil shall replicate and scale
     this model across the State. The State will identify suitable land parcels for the development of
     Research Parks. Further, universities in the State will be encouraged to set up research parks on their
     campuses in collaboration with public sector entities like TIDCO, SIPCOT and TANSIDCO. Additionally,
     TIDCO and SIPCOT shall undertake studies with the third parties to understand and examine the
     industry-speciﬁc infrastructural and facility requirements in a research park to ensure that the
     industry-speciﬁc differences are accounted for while planning and allocating resources for the
     research parks.




11
3.2. Industry 4.0 Platform
The State shall create a dedicated platform catering to opportunities and information on Industries
4.0. This platform shall act as a rich and up-to-date knowledge repository of contextual and useful
information that can help all stakeholders. The digital platform shall provide information to industries
related to accredited service providers/skilled personnel, case studies and toolkits on Industries 4.0,
CoE, academicians, start-ups, and independent researchers - their areas of specialization, recent
patents and publications. This platform will help GCCs and R&D companies ﬁnd high-tech solutions
from researchers and scientists for their industrial problems. The platform will be further used by the
industry and industry associations for posting their call for proposals. Academia can beneﬁt from this
platform by showcasing or participating in projects and connect with industries on placement and
internship opportunities. Accredited service providers will able to showcase their service offerings on
Industries 4.0 to all stakeholders.


3.3. Work Labs
The State has established Work Labs as a special cell under Guidance to enable the synergy between
industries and academia, in order to equip graduates with the required skills for innovation and
industrial readiness in sunrise sectors. The requirement from industries is identiﬁed and mapped to
the existing curriculum offered by the institutes and universities within the State with
recommendations on curriculum or course revision or internship programs. Work Labs also act as a
bridge between the academia and industry to facilitate internships, industrial training for professors,
academic trainings to industrial workforce, and coordinate lifelong learning programmes in Private
Sector R&D companies. Work Labs shall work with the Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and
Technology (TNSCST) to offer short term diploma/online courses on research methodology, data
analytics and science, scientiﬁc writing and publishing, effective collaboration in research, and grant
writing.


3.4. Centres of Excellence
CoEs are state of the art facilities created to develop emerging technologies to support industries in
the niche and sunrise sectors. With the active growth of the smart manufacturing in Tamil Nadu,
infusion of new technology platforms in the form of CoE are considered essential to enable capability
building and accelerates growth and transformation of the manufacturing and ICT companies to
newer boundaries in the State. The Centres disseminate specialized knowledge and enhance
competency through highly skilled individuals and experts. The objective of CoEs is to enhance
capabilities and productivities of existing industries and MSMEs, and promote innovation in the
identiﬁed sectors. The State shall continue its efforts to support the three kinds of established models
of Centres of Excellence:


a) Centres within an Educational Institute
There are over 15 centrally and state recognized COEs operating within the educational institutes in
Tamil Nadu. The State shall encourage grant-based development of university afﬁliated CoEs under
the Research and Technology Fund.




                                                                                                           12
     b) Stand-alone COE
     A scheme called “Promotion of Centres of Excellence for Emerging Technologies in Manufacturing”
     has been formulated by TIDCO. With an emphasis on encouraging R&D, the Government shall
     establish Centres of Excellence through public private partnerships in key manufacturing areas
     aligned with the Grand Challenges. The CoEs operating will be provided with infrastructural support
     for designing, product development, prototyping, manufacturing, skill development, and R&D
     activities to help industries adopt future technologies.

     c) Networks of Excellence
     TNeGA has established the Centre of Excellence in Emerging Technologies (CEET), with the vision to
     bridge the knowledge gap between the development and application of emerging technologies in
     Government Departments. CEET is envisaged to act as a catalyst for the diffusion of innovation into
     the targeted departments.


     3.5. National and International R&D Collaboration
     For the free ﬂow of knowledge, the linkages among the stakeholders should not just be conﬁned to
     local geographical, and political boundaries. International collaboration between international
     universities, State institutes and R&D companies is a critical component of knowledge infrastructure.
     There are various national and international consortiums and networks that promote the progress of
     science such as the National Science Foundation and CMS. The Government shall facilitate
     collaboration between State universities and colleges with these research consortiums to help the
     State researchers get international exposure and leverage bilateral research cooperation between
     India and focus countries. Further, the State shall encourage industry and academia to leverage the
     unutilized funds allocated to R&D at a central level (DBT/DST/DSIR) through knowledge
     dissemination.


     3.6. Conclaves
     The State shall organise regular outreach events to invite new and existing R&D and GCCs to
     showcase the best practices and recognition in the State’s ﬂagship events with a focus on Tier 2 /3
     cities.




13
4. Incentives
One of the key policy objectives is to boost private R&D expenditure. Private businesses engage in
R&D activities mainly to increase the competitiveness of their products and services and hence
innovation is intrinsic to their growth. Private sector participation in R&D is vital to create an impetus
for innovation-led growth for the State. R&D has attributes of a public good that is indivisible
(non-rival in use) and has a cost for exclusion. The markets, therefore, have a tendency of undervaluing
R&D. This calls for support from the Government to eliminate the market failure. The Government of
Tamil Nadu recognizes the private sector as the engine of growth of R&D in the State and hence shall
support the business initiatives related to establishment and expansion of R&D Centres and GCCs
through various targeted incentives.


The approach to incentives is designed on three aspects. Firstly, as a ﬁrst of its kind initiative by Tamil
Nadu for incentivising the services sector, the State shall incentivise GCCs at a par with engineering
R&D centres. This is because R&D intensive processes and product development is undertaken in
both. Secondly, the State shall provide targeted incentives over and above the Industrial Policy to
cater to the unique requirements and nature of R&D. Thirdly, given that identiﬁcation of an R&D ﬁrm
is difﬁcult, suitable relaxations/ modiﬁcations have been provided on eligibility.


4.1. Eligibility
R&D ﬁrms (standalone and in-house) and GCCs meeting the eligibility criteria listed herein shall be
eligible for incentives outlined in this section, subject to the following conditions:

■ Must have a Minimum Investment of Rs. 50 cr. in Eligible Fixed Assets within a Standard Investment
  Period of 4 years and creation of Employment for 50 persons
■ Clearly demarcated facilities in or outside the Projects
■ Must be engaged in product R&D in Tamil Nadu


a) Eligibility Criteria for R&D Centres
   i) In house R&D units should be engaged in manufacture or production or in rendering technical
        services. Companies engaged in contract research and stand-alone R&D units shall also be
        considered.
   ii) R&D ﬁrms are expected to be engaged in innovative research & development activities related
        to the line of business of the ﬁrm, such as the development of new technologies, design &
        engineering, product development, development of new methods of analysis & testing, and
        research for increased efﬁciency in the use of resources.
   iii) At the time of application, the R&D unit(s) should be functional or should have well deﬁned,
        time-bound R&D programmes leading to the development of innovative products and/or
        technology(ies).
   iv) Firms engaged solely in market research, work & methods study, operations & management
        research, testing & analysis of routine nature for operation, process control, quality control and
        maintenance of day-to-day production, and maintenance of plant shall not be considered as
        R&D ﬁrms.

b) Eligibility Criteria for GCCs
   i) The GCC is in the most recent Forbes Global 2000 list or Fortune 1000 list.
   ii) The GCC is a greenﬁeld or existing GCC is expanding their operations in Tamil Nadu after the
       date of issue of the Government Order and prior to 31.12.2027.
   iii) The GCC (new or existing) will create a minimum 500 jobs within the Standard Investment
       Period of 4 years.
                                                                                                              14
     Given that the distinction between R&D ﬁrms and manufacturing units and ICT service providers can
     sometimes be fuzzy, the ﬁrms that do not strictly meet the criteria, can also submit a proposal to the
     sanctioning authorities for consideration. The additional eligibility criteria are mentioned in Annexure 1


     4.2. Special Package of Incentives for R&D Centres and GCCs
     Projects with investments made from April 1, 2022, will be considered eligible for availing incentives.
     The Special Package of Incentives for R&D Centres and GCCs will include the following incentives
     applicable to R&D Projects as per TNIP 2021 speciﬁed in Para 4.2.1 to Para 4.2.6 below, with suitable
     relaxations/provisions/enhancements and additional incentives as speciﬁed in Para 4.2.7 to Para 4.2.10.


     Special Incentives Applicable based on TNIP 2021

     4.2.1. Land Cost Incentive for Standalone R&D Projects
     R&D projects shall be given an incentive of 50% of the cost of purchase or lease of land for up to 20 acre,
     subject to a ceiling of Rs. 50 lakh/acre. This shall be provided as a reimbursement upon
     commencement of the R&D Centre. R&D projects shall also be given priority in land allotment in
     SIPCOT Industrial Parks.


     4.2.2. R&D Training Incentive
     R&D Training Incentive of Rs. 10,000 per person per month can be availed for 12 months for the
     residents of Tamil Nadu. This incentive is intended for employees engaged in core R&D who have an
     undergraduate degree in technology/sciences and a work experience of 7 years, or a post-graduate
     degree in technology/sciences and a work experience of 5 years, or a doctorate in sciences/technology.
     It excludes employees in administration or in support services deployed in R&D projects. Projects
     availing the R&D Training Incentive shall not be eligible for Training Subsidy under the Structured
     Package.


     4.2.3. Enhanced Quality Certification Incentive
     Projects obtaining certiﬁcations like ISO, ISI, BIS, FPO, BEE, AGMARK, and ECOMARK or any other
     national or international certiﬁcation shall be given a subsidy of 50% of the total cost incurred for
     obtaining the certiﬁcation, as certiﬁed by the Chartered Accountant, limited to Rs. 1 cr. for the period of
     investment.


     4.2.4. Enhanced Intellectual Property Incentive
     The Government will reimburse 50% of the expenditure incurred by the Project subject to a maximum
     of Rs. 1 cr. for the period of investment for in-house R&D for a patent, copyright, trademarks, and
     Geographical Indicators registration and up to Rs 5 cr. for standalone R&D assets.




15
4.2.5. Standard Incentives
The Project shall also be eligible for standard incentives, namely, electricity tax exemption for 5 years,
stamp duty exemption, and green industry incentives of up to Rs. 1 cr. (refer to TNIP 2021 Para 13.5).
In-house R&D units shall not be eligible for standard incentives if the Industrial Unit has also availed
the incentives for the project. Projects availing the Enhanced Quality Certiﬁcation
Incentive/Enhanced IP Incentive shall not be eligible for Quality Certiﬁcation/IP Incentive under
Standard Incentives, respectively.


4.2.6. SGST Refund on Capital Goods
The Project shall also be eligible for SGST refund on capital goods as speciﬁed in Para 13.6 of Tamil
Nadu Industrial Policy 2021.


Additional Incentives over and above TNIP 2021

4.2.7. Special Capital Subsidy
The R&D companies and GCCs are known for their highly capital intensive nature of operations. These
companies also rely on imports of specialized equipment that are necessary to carry out research and
product development activities. To support the competitiveness and quality of research activities
projects, a special capital subsidy of 25% on the Eligible Fixed Assets shall be disbursed in equal
instalments of over 10 years from the date of purchase of land, machinery and equipment, subject to
a ceiling of Rs. 25 crores, whichever is lesser.




                                                                                                             16
     As per TNIP 2021, EFA shall include investment in R&D such as land, building, plant, and machinery. To
     encourage R&D, EFA shall include the following intangible R&D related expenditure, subject to a
     ceiling of up to 20% of EFA:
       i. Expenditure incurred on new R&D: Test and measuring instruments, prototypes used for testing,
          purchase of design tools, software cost (directly used for R&D) and license fee, expenditure on
          technology, IPR, patents, and copyrights for R&D.
       ii.Expenditure related to Transfer of Technology (ToT) Agreements: This shall include the cost of
          technology and initial technology purchase related to the manufactured goods that are related to
          manufacturing and R&D in Life Sciences.


     All non-creditable taxes and duties would be included in such expenditure.


     4.2.8. Innovation Lab Incentive
     Innovation labs allow diverse participants and long term collaborations for the purpose of creating
     and prototyping radical solutions to predeﬁned systematic challenges. Innovation labs develop
     tangible solutions and therefore seek to remain active throughout the entire innovation process,
     going beyond the ideation stage, where possible. To promote these labs that cater to the needs of
     innovation clusters and act as a catalyst for the research and development, 50% of the EFA created on
     innovation labs shall be reimbursed, up to Rs. 1 crore. The incentive is available only to innovation labs
     that are accredited/certiﬁed as per NABL, ISO certiﬁed or any other national or international
     standards.


     4.2.9. License Cost Incentive
     The cost incurred on proprietary software licenses is one of the major areas of expenditure for R&D
     ﬁrms and GCCs. Considering the nature of technology intensive operations that contribute to high
     operating costs, 50% of the expenditure incurred on the purchase of a specialized software license
     within the Standard Investment Period of 4 years subject to a ceiling of Rs. 25 lakhs.


     4.2.10. Product Testing & Prototyping Incentive
     Prototyping is a crucial stage before commercialization wherein the product developer can test the
     design and identify errors if any before the commercialization. To encourage prototyping within the
     State, R&D ﬁrms and GCCs shall be provided with a subsidy of 25% of the EFA on establishing product
     testing and prototyping facilities, subject to a ceiling of Rs. 1 crore.


     4.3. Other Relaxations
     In addition to monetary incentives, the Government shall encourage R&D ﬁrms and GCCs through
     proactive labour and FSI relaxations.


     4.3.1. Labour Relaxations
     R&D ﬁrms shall be provided exemption from Factories Act for demarcated in-house R&D units. GCCs
     operating in ICT can avail of administrative incentives as offered under ICT Policy 2018 or as updated
     from time to time. This can be availed for GCC expansion operations also.


     4.3.2. FSI Relaxations
     Relaxation of FSI shall be provided as available to ICT ﬁrms under the ICT Policy of 2018 or as updated
     from time to time. This can also be availed for GCC expansion operations.


17
5. Enhancing Human Capital
Investment in education and research drives productivity growth of the State. Universities and
educational institutes are the prime contributors in building human capital for R&D. As a
consequence, favourable human capital policies can serve as a catalyst for the hi-tech development
envisioned. The core idea for enhancing human capital is to have a programme-based approach to
building at least 10 high calibre research institutes in the State that are on par with institutes of
international prominence. The Higher Education Department shall evolve programs to build research
capacities in the State, attract academicians of the Tamil diaspora, and establish Technology Transfer
ofﬁces. These programs shall be piloted with State-Funded or Private Universities and Colleges in
Tamil Nadu that feature in the top 50 NIRF Research rankings.



5.1. Research Capacity Building
Universities are the major suppliers of scientists and researchers. The State has a sound base of
human capital created by the premier central and state universities, colleges, and polytechnics in
Tamil Nadu. In the academic year, 2019-20, despite the pandemic Tamil Nadu had almost 3000 PhD
degrees awarded in science and technology. The Government of Tamil Nadu, vide, Higher Education
Department, shall undertake concerted efforts to further strengthen the supply of scientists and
researchers with a dedicated program for capacity building for research in the State. This shall include,
but shall not be limited to the following:
  • Provide grants to defray the cost of setting up R&D labs,
  • Support on research operating expenditure of PhD students and Professors working on research
    problems given by the Industry or any area aligned with Grand Challenges that have a commercial
    application.
  • Support publications, conferences, and seminars.
  • Increase admission intake for PhD programs in State Universities and Colleges, especially in the
    disciplines aligned to grand challenges.
  • Endeavour to increase PhD stipends of State Universities and colleges /Deemed Universities in the
    State in phases, at a par with national institutes of importance.
  • Create training programs, workshops, and industrial immersion programs for faculty members to
    understand real-life industrial problems.


5.2. 100 Talent Plan
The Higher Education Department shall evolve a dedicated program to attract scientists and
academicians of Tamil origin living abroad. Under the program, scientists or academicians who are
afﬁliated with a renowned international university or a research institute with good quality
publications and patents will be invited for short-term appointments in Private and State
Universities/Deemed Universities operating within the State, related to Grand Challenges.



5.3. Technology Transfer Offices
The State shall support capacity building in technical colleges and universities by establishing a
technology transfer ofﬁce (TTO). These ofﬁces will help in translating new and innovative research into
commercially viable products or services. These ofﬁces shall also serve as the subject matter experts
for assisting researchers to establish research relationships with external stakeholders. TTOs shall
offer various agreements that are drafted to ﬁt the research needs of the engineering students,
scholars, and professors.



                                                                                                            18
19
6. MSMEs and Start-ups
The innovation landscape is not complete without Start-ups and MSMEs. Start-ups incubated in
academic institutes and mentored by experts are also popular for providing tech solutions to large
industries and governments. Tamil Nadu Start-up and Innovation Mission (TANSIM) has set an
ambitious target to establish approximately 10,000 start-ups in Tamil Nadu by 2026. The Government
of Tamil Nadu, through its various agencies, shall establish regional start-up hubs, industrial
innovation centres, technology hubs and formulate a dedicated research program for the
development of MSMEs & Start-ups.


6.1. Regional Start-up Hubs
TANSIM shall set up Regional Start-up Hubs in various parts of the State such as Erode, Madurai, and
Tirunelveli to enhance the start-up ecosystem across Tamil Nadu. Further, TANSIM shall support state
engineering colleges to establish in-house innovation centres in key areas. These incubation centres
will offer the required infrastructure, networking facilities, workshops, and legal and marketing
assistance for start-ups against monthly fees. Apart from being mentored by faculty members of the
premier institutes, these start-ups will receive certiﬁcation in Human Resource Management, Legal
Management, Accounting and Financial Management, Cloud computing, and others from mentoring
agencies.


6.2. Industrial Innovation Centres
SIPCOT shall establish Industrial Innovation Centres in existing and upcoming industrial estates
starting with Coimbatore, Sriperumbudur, and Hosur. These innovation centres aim to support
high-tech manufacturing ventures. These centres shall also serve as incubation centres with state of
the art machinery to support start-ups through common facilities to boost the existing
manufacturing and innovation ecosystem in these locations.



6.3. iTNT Hub
The Tamil Nadu Technology Hub (iTNT) shall act as the core connecting the ecosystem of start-ups
working in Emerging and DeepTech Areas, with the academic network of more than 570 Engineering
Colleges, engaging with researchers and industry partners to pave the way for innovation that will
drive the world of tomorrow. Anchored by the Government of Tamil Nadu and supported by the
Government of India, iTNT Hub will build India’s ﬁrst DeepTech Innovation Network connected to the
world. iTNT has been conceptualised to solve complex challenges in different sectors, such as
agriculture, health, or education, using emerging technologies like Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI), data
analytics, and blockchain. The hub will function as an accelerator-cum-incubator for start-ups
working in the DeepTech sector.



6.4. MSME Innovation Research Program
The MSME Department will evolve a competitive and innovative procurement-based program aligned
with Grand Challenges that will encourage MSMEs and Start-ups to engage in R&D for the State with
the potential for commercialization. This will enable MSMEs to explore their technological potential
and commercialize their innovation, while catering to the requirements of the State. This program
shall operate in a phased manner starting with establishing the techno-commercial feasibility of the
project in response to call for solutions from various governmental departments, followed by
prototyping, and ﬁnally, commercialisation.

                                                                                                        20
     7. Funding Avenues
     Government funding can encourage ﬁrms to collaborate in R&D projects. There is growing evidence that
     existing partnerships can be intensiﬁed, and new ones can be initiated as a result of government funding,
     and these collaborations continue even beyond the participation or support of the Government. In this
     context, the Government serves as a catalyst for R&D. There are various sources of funding offered by the
     Government of Tamil Nadu. Some of the funding avenues relevant to R&D and innovation are listed
     below.


     7.1. TANSEED
     The Tamil Nadu Start-up Seed Grant Fund (TANSEED) created under the TN Start-up and Innovation
     Policy 2018 offers grants of Rs 10 Lakh to start-ups. The grant is established in association with Headstart
     Network Foundation & Villgro Innovations Foundation. TANSEED will support early-stage ﬁnancing
     requirements of the Start-ups in the form of grants to ﬁll the gap in fund requirements for research &
     innovations.


     7.2. Emerging Sector Seed Fund
     Tamil Nadu Emerging Sector Seed Fund (TNESSF) is a Government of Tamil Nadu initiative that has been
     established with the objective of investing in both start-ups and (non-start-up) undertakings in the
     sunrise/emerging sectors. The Fund is managed by Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management
     Corporation (TNIFMC), and aims to identify and invest in bankable start-ups and emerging sector
     companies to add alpha to the business in the form of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial support. TNESSF has a
     corpus of Rs. 50 crores for making equity investments in start-ups based in the State and aligns well with
     the State’s objective of fostering innovation in start-ups and sunrise sectors, and with R&D ﬁrms looking
     to raise funds.


     7.3. Innovation Initiatives
     The State Planning Commission, through the Tamil Nadu Innovation Initiatives supports innovation in
     process, practice, approach, technique, or Information Technology, which is new or novel to public service
     delivery. Innovative ideas shall be nurtured by special innovation programs (such as Innovation Voucher
     Program). 25% of the project cost may be provided as a grant to eligible agencies such as State
     Universities/State agencies. The ﬁnal quantum of the grant would be decided by the State Planning
     Commission based on the research proposal and expected research outcome. R&D ﬁrms are encouraged
     to approach eligible agencies for partnership with their proposals.


     7.4. Research and Technology Fund
     A Research & Technology Fund with a corpus of Rs. 100 crore has been proposed in TNIP 2021 to support
     R&D and Technology adoption in sunrise sectors. This fund shall be operationalized with an addition of Rs.
     150 crore to fund R&D activities in the private sector. The fund shall be used to aid
     Contract/Industry-sponsored research and standalone industrial R&D projects state operating in
     segments aligned with Grand Challenges.




21
7.5. Extension of Digital Accelerator
The Government of Tamil Nadu has announced a ‘Digital Accelerator’ scheme under Yaadhum Oorae
with American Tamil Entrepreneurs Association (ATEA) to promote start-ups investing from the US in
TN from various ﬁelds such as IT, Healthcare, Electric Vehicles, emerging areas on IoT, AI, Cloud
Computing, and Sustainable Development Goals. It is proposed that a grant of 10% of capital raised
may be provided towards operational and capital expenditure, up to Rs. 1 crore per start-up. Similar
grants shall be created for start-ups that contribute to innovation, from other countries with Tamil
diaspora.


7.6. Science & Technology Schemes
The Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology (TNSCST) offers various schemes for ﬁnal
year students and researchers to encourage independent research in Science, Technology,
Engineering and Mathematics disciplines. Schemes such as Student Project Scheme, Science and
Technology Projects, Young Scientist Fellowship scheme, Tamil Nadu Scientists Award, Innovation,
and Product Development provide assistance and scholarship to selected candidates who
successfully demonstrate novelty in ideas that have a substantial impact on society. The proposals
that are aligned with Grand Challenges and have a potential for commercialization will be further
supported with additional ﬁnancial support.




                                                                                                       22
 8. Implementation
 The Government of Tamil Nadu shall establish a Section 8 Company for the Tamil Nadu R&D Mission
 (“Cognition”) to achieve global competitiveness in innovation. The R&D Mission will be chaired by the
 Hon’ble Minister for Industries, Investment Promotion and Commerce and supported by a Leadership
 Board comprising representatives from the Government, Industry, and Academia. The R&D Mission
 shall also partner with think tanks & funding agencies for speciﬁc initiatives & programmes outlined in
 this Policy. The R&D Mission shall have three primary mandates, namely, as a facilitator, procurer, and
 evaluator of R&D in the State.



 8.1. R&D Facilitator
 The R&D Mission shall serve the role of a facilitator in enabling further interactions between academia
 and industry to develop and build the necessary linkages required. As part of its role as a facilitator, it
 shall:
 i. Develop and manage the I4.0 Platform which shall provide a common platform for academicians,
     start-ups, CoEs, and independent researchers.
 ii. Act as a bridge between academia and industry to foster industry academia linkages through
     programmes such as industrial trainings for professors, academic trainings to industrial workforce,
     and industrial internships for students.
 iii. Promote intellectual property generation through knowledge dissemination programmes.



 8.2. R&D Procurement
  The R&D Mission shall assist the Government of Tamil Nadu in R&D procurement programmes. As part
  of this role, it shall:
 i. Request for research proposals from various governmental departments and agencies in areas aligned
    with Grand Challenges.
 ii. Facilitate grants and award programs for research problems taken by an institution/start-up



 8.3. Monitoring & Impact Evaluation
 The R&D Mission shall assist the Government in monitoring & evaluating the impact of R&D projects in
 the State. As part of this role, it shall create a framework for monitoring, and track the innovation and
 R&D activities in the State. This shall include R&D spending, the number of innovations, patents ﬁled
 and received, and publications by Start-ups, MSMEs, private businesses, non-proﬁts and Research
 Institutes.



 8.4. Implementing Agency
 The R&D Mission shall be the implementing agency for the Policy. To consider and sanction incentives
 under this policy, the Inter-Departmental Committee constituted for the implementation of the Tamil
 Nadu Industrial Policy, 2021 shall serve as a recommendatory body to the Cabinet for sanction of
 incentives. SIPCOT shall be the disbursal agency for all incentives listed in Section 4 of this Policy.
 Operational guidelines and clariﬁcation may be issued from time to time.




23
Annexure I

                            Additional Eligibility Criteria

 • The companies shall submit the latest annual report, a brief write-up on the past achievements in
   R&D in the country or outside, and ongoing and future R&D projects/programmes of the in-house
   and stand-alone R&D unit. In addition, the company may enclose copies of bio-data of key R&D
   personnel/ scientists, major infrastructure available for research, product brochures/literature,
   certiﬁcates of merit or awards etc., which may help the Industries Department appreciate the
   strengths of the R&D unit.


 • A softcopy of the application along with the corporate presentation & a presentation on the R&D
   of the company should also be submitted.


 • The company must spell out a long-term R&D policy.


 • R&D activities should be separate from routine activities of the ﬁrm, such as production and
  quality control. The units should have separate & identiﬁable infrastructure for carrying out R&D
  work.


 • The R&D activities should be clearly demarcated from the manufacturing/quality control
  activities/IT services.


 • The R&D units and GCCs should have well-deﬁned, time-bound R&D programmes. The unit
  should maintain a proper record of its R&D activities in the form of documentation.


 • The units should have qualiﬁed staff exclusively engaged in R&D and should be headed by a
  full-time qualiﬁed & experienced R&D person who has direct access to the Chief Executive or to
  the Board of Directors, depending on the size of the company. The number of R&D manpower
  should be commensurate with the S&T manpower size of the company.


 • The R&D units and GCCs should maintain separate books of accounts for all the R&D
  expenditures. Expenditure should be booked when incurred and not allocated. The company
  should reﬂect the R&D expenditure (both capital & revenue) in the Annual Report and Statement
  of Accounts of the company in separate schedules. The R&D expenditure incurred should be
  commensurate with the ﬁnancial size of the company.




                                                                                                       24
Notes
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU




www.investingintamilnadu.com
