TAMILNADU SOLAR ENERGY
POLICY - 2019

TAMIL NADU SOLAR ENERGY
POLICY 2019

z

a

© ONAMTAWN

PRP PRP BP BP BP PB
ON Aa wWnN er Oo

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

TAMIL NADU SOLAR ENERGY POLICY

CONTENTS

Introduction

Preamble

Tamil Nadu Solar Energy Vision

Solar Energy Policy Objectives

Scope of Solar Energy Policy

Solar Energy Targets

Legislative Framework for Policy

Solar Energy grid feed-in

Solar Energy feed-in tariffs

Solar Energy implementation models
Solar Energy mandates and programs
Incentives

Grid Connectivity and Energy Evacuation
Awareness Creation, Education and Capacity Building
Solar Energy Research

Monitoring and Evaluation

Role of the State Agencies

Operative Period

Page
No.

oO O ON NI Doon ft BWHNY

1.0
Lids

tides

Lads

1.4.

1.5.

TAMIL NADU SOLAR ENERGY POLICY - 2019

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
Energy Department

Introduction

The Special Report on Global Warming (SR 15, October 2018) by the
Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) estimates the impact
of global warming of 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels. One of the key
messages that comes out strongly from this report is that the world is
already seeing the consequences of 1°C of global warming through more
extreme weather, rising sea levels and diminishing Arctic sea ice, among
other changes. The report states that under emissions in line with current
pledges under the Paris Agreement (known as Nationally-Determined
Contributions or NDCs), global warming is expected to surpass 1.5°C,
even if they are supplemented with very challenging increases in the scale
and ambition of mitigation after 2030.

The report also states that limiting warming to 1.5°C implies reaching net
zero CO, emissions globally around 2050 and concurrent deep reductions
in emissions of non-CO,z climate forcers, particularly methane. Risks to
natural and human systems are lower at 1.5°C than at 2°C,

Drastically de-carbonising existing energy system by investing in renewable
energy systems, including solar, at an unprecedented scale and pace is
required to address global warming. IPCC highlights that social justice and
equity are core aspects of climate-resilient development pathways that
aim to limit global warming to 1.5°C and that the poor and underprivileged
communities need to be included in the solutions addressing climate
mitigation. With the ratification of the Paris Agreement COP21, India has
committed to reduce the emissions intensity of its GDP by 33%-35% by
2030 from 2005 levels by increasing the share of non-fossil-based energy
resources to 40% of installed electric power capacity by 2030 and by
creating additional (cumulative) carbon sinks of 2.5~3 GtCO2e through
additional forest and tree cover by 2030.

The Government of India and the Government of Tamil Nadu have put in
place various policies and mechanisms to promote solar energy, including
financial incentives for certain categories of users. The Government of
India has set a target of 100,000 MW of solar energy capacity for 2022 of
which 40% (40,000 MW) is to come from the consumer category in the
form of rooftop and similar small scale solar energy systems.

The Government of Tamil Nadu had notified the Tamil Nadu Solar Energy
Policy, 2012 in October 2012. This exemplary Solar Energy Policy included

1

1.6.

1.7.

2.0

Qed

Deki

2.3.

2.4.

solar net metering for consumer Solar Photo Voltaic systems. This early
adoption of net metering contributed to making the State a national leader
in solar energy. Many other Indian States followed suit in adopting solar
energy policies similar to the Tamil Nadu policy.

Vision Tamil Nadu 2023, a Strategic Plan for Infrastructure Development in
Tamil Nadu, includes a solar energy target of 5,000 MW. More recently the
Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) proposed a solar energy
target for the year 2022 of 9,000 MW for Tamil Nadu. To meet the Vision
Tamil Nadu 2023 and MNRE 2022 targets substantial solar energy capacity
addition is required. Achieving the solar energy target for 2023 requires
new policy instruments and solar energy programs, especially so for the
consumer category. Enhanced grid penetration of solar energy requires
smart grid management and energy storage solutions.

With the experience gained from implementation of the Tamil Nadu Solar
Energy Policy, 2012 and with a view of accelerating the transition to a
sustainable energy future, this Tamil Nadu Solar Energy Policy, 2019
provides an inclusive policy framework that promotes both utility category
and consumer category solar energy generation through various enabling
mechanisms.

Preamble

Government of Tamil Nadu has an unwavering commitment to the Directive
Principle of the State Policy enshrined in Article 48.A of the Constitution,
which stipulates that “the State shall endeavour to protect and improve the
environment”. It was out of this commitment that the Government issued
the Tamil Nadu Solar Policy 2012, which was the first comprehensive solar
energy policy in the country.

Government's commitment to people’s welfare is equally resolute. Access
to affordable, reliable, quality electricity supply for all is a welfare enabler.

With these twin policy objectives of protecting the environment and
the welfare of its people, Tamil Nadu is committed to a sustainable and
equitable energy future.

Energy is one of the key driving forces of socio-economic development
and change. Long-term energy security is therefore an essential element
of sustainable development. The rapid depletion of non-renewable energy
sources and the adverse effects caused to the globe by the process of
extracting energy from fossil fuels call for urgent solutions while demand
for energy will keep increasing. The universally accepted view is that only
energy from renewable sources offer a solution for a sustainable energy

a

2.5,

2.6.

27,

3.0

3.4,

Bis

3.3.

3.4.

3.5.

3.6.

future. Renewable energy targets will have to be set to align with the
nation’s commitment of its greenhouse gas emissions.

The Government of India has launched the Jawaharlal Nehru National
Solar Mission (JNNSM) under the National Action Plan for Climate Change
(NAPCC) to promote ecologically sustainable growth while addressing
India’s energy security challenges.. The objective of the National Solar
Mission is to establish India as a global leader in solar energy by creating
the policy conditions for its diffusion across the country as quickly as
possible. Tamil Nadu will make a significant contribution to the National
Solar Mission.

Tamil Nadu is one of the most urbanized and industrial states of India. A
continuous increase in energy demand from all sectors is expected in the
years to come. To meet the increasing energy demand in a sustainable
manner, it is essential that the Government of Tamil Nadu formulates
and implements energy policies that are driven by a clear vision and
implemented through the participation of all stakeholders.

This Tamil Nadu Solar Energy Policy 2019 intends to create a framework
that enables an accelerated development of solar energy in the State.

Tamil Nadu Solar Energy Vision

Solar energy will be a major contributor to a sustainable energy future for
Tamil Nadu.

Solar energy development will be part of an overall energy strategy that
includes demand side management, energy conservation, energy efficiency
initiatives, distributed renewable energy generation, electric mobility and
smart grids.

Solar energy development will provide green jobs to a significant number
of the State’s workforce.

Solar energy will become available, accessible and affordable to all citizens
of Tamil Nadu.

Solar energy generation will significantly contribute to reducing the carbon
and water footprint of the State’s energy sector.

Tamil Nadu will be an international climate leader for emerging economies
by 2023.

4.0
4.1.

4.2,

4.3.

4.4.

4.5,

4.6,

4.7.

4.8.
4.9.

4,10,

4.11.

5.0

5.1.

Solar Energy Policy Objectives
Define clear and transparent policy governance.

Establish an eco-system that translates the solar energy vision into
enabling policy systems and processes.

Use regulatory mechanisms to ensure that Tamil Nadu will achieve, or
exceed, the solar energy portfolio obligations as may be determined by
the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) from time to
time.

In accordance with regulations, facilitate open access to the public electricity
grid and thereby create opportunities for grid-connected distributed
generation of solar power.

Encourage and incentivise electricity consumers to set up solar energy
systems.

Establish a ‘Single Window System’ for technical support, funding support
and project clearance through cooperation between the concerned
Government departments.

Encourage public-private partnerships and joint ventures to mobilize
investments in solar energy projects, manufacturing facilities, research,
and technology development.

Facilitate ‘Ease of Doing Business’ in the solar energy sector.

Create an investment-friendly environment that provides opportunities
for private individuals, companies, local bodies, government departments
and others to contribute to and participate in the generation of solar
energy, particularly for the electricity consumer to become a “prosumer”
(a producer-consumer),

Create a win-win situation for all stakeholders.

Create a road map to achieve the objectives of the “National Renewable
Energy Policy” to be issued by the Central government.

Scope of Solar Energy Policy

This policy will be applicable to projects, programs and installations relating
to solar photovoltaic energy (solar PV) and solar thermal energy and to
both utility and consumer category systems.

5.2.

Byes le

5.2.2,

6.0

6.1.

6.2.

7.0
7.1.

7.1.1.

7.1.2.

7.1.3.

7.1.4,

This policy uses the terms “utility category systems” and “consumer
category systems”, which are defined as follows:

Utility category systems: where the objective is sales of solar energy to
a distribution licensee or a third party or self consumption at a remote
location (wheeling). For these systems the grid connection is through a
dedicated gross metering interface.

Consumer category systems: where the objective is self-consumption of
solar energy and export of surplus energy to the grid. For these systems the
grid connection is through a consumer service connection of a distribution
licensee.

Solar Energy Targets

Tamil Nadu will have an installed solar energy generation capacity of 9,000
MW by 2023. Of this target, 40% will be earmarked for consumer category
solar energy systems.

Targets for subsequent years will be set by the Government of Tamil Nadu
through notifications under this policy.

Legislative Framework for Policy

The legislative framework for this solar energy policy includes the following
provisions; namely:-

The Electricity Act, 2003 (Central Act 36 of 2003) (the “Act”) mandates
that the Electricity Regulatory Commissions and the Governments shall
take necessary steps to promote Renewable Energy. The preamble to
the Electricity Act, 2003 recognizes the significance and importance of
promotion of efficient and environmentally benign policies.

Section 61(h) of the Act provides that while specifying the terms and
conditions of determination of tariff, State Regulatory Commissions shall
be guided, inter-alia, by the promotion of cogeneration and generation of
electricity from renewable sources of energy.

The National Electricity Policy (NEP) and Tariff Policy notified by the
Central Government under the provisions of section 3(1) of the Act have
also addressed the issues of untapped potential of energy from non-
conventional and renewable energy sources.

Section 86(1)(e) of the Act specifies that one of the functions of the
State Electricity Regulatory Commissions is to promote cogeneration and
generation of electricity from renewable sources of energy by providing
suitable measures for connectivity with the grid and to promote sale of

5

7.1.5.

8.0

8.1.

8.1.1.

such power to any person. The Regulatory Commission is also required to
stipulate that a certain percentage of the total consumption of electricity in
the area of a distribution licensee shall be obtained from renewable energy
source (Renewable Energy Purchase Obligation, or RPO).

Section 86(1)(e) of the Act mandates State Electricity Regulatory
Commissions (SERCs) to notify RPOs, ensure RPO compliance and invoke
penal provisions against defaulting entities.

Solar Energy grid feed-in

Solar energy grid feed-in mechanisms will include, but may not be limited
to the following:

Solar energy gross feed-in (utility category):

The solar energy is fed into the grid for energy sales to the distribution
licensee or a third party under the open access facility or for captive
consumption under open access. In the case of distribution licensees,
the solar energy fed into the grid will be purchased by the distribution
licensee at the prevailing solar energy tariffs as determined by the TNERC
or a tariff determined by a bidding process. Utility category solar energy
gross feed-in will be permitted at all voltage levels, subject to applicable
wheeling and other applicable charges and conditions for various voltage
levels as may be determined by TNERC. However, no wheeling facility is
permitted at LT voltage level. Wheeling of Energy will be permitted only,
during the generation of electricity and will be adjusted slot/ block to slot/
block and excess energy fed into the grid shall be treated as infirm power
under sale to Discom category only. The excess energy will be paid at the
rate as determined by TNERC from time to time.

6
8.152,

9.0

9.1,

G2,

10.0
10.1.

10.1.1.

10.1.2.

Solar energy net feed-in (consumer category):

PV Array Grid-connected Inverter

Legend
— :0C Power
mem 1 AC Power

Direction of Power Flow
NN: (idirectional] Net Meter

The solar energy is used for self-consumption with the surplus, if any,
being exported to the grid. A bidirectional service connection energy
meter will be installed by the distribution licensee to record the imported
and exported energy. The imported energy is debited at the applicable
consumer tariff while the exported energy is credited on the basis of a
consumer solar energy tariff to be determined by TNERC. The consumer
pays the difference between the debit and credit amounts. If the cumulative
credit amount exceeds the debit amount during any billing cycle, the net
credit is carried over to the next billing cycle. At the end of a 12-month
settlement period as may be determined by TNERC, the net credit, if any,
the consumer has the option to receive payment of the net credit balance.
Solar energy net feed-in will be available to all low tension (LT) electricity
consumer categories subject to TNERC regulations as may be determined
from time to time.

Solar Energy feed-in tariffs

Solar energy gross feed-in at utility sale tariff will be based on competitive
bidding subject to approval of TNERC and net feed-in tariffs will be
determined by TNERC,

TNERC may introduce time-of-the-day (TOD) solar energy feed-in tariffs
to encourage solar energy producers and solar energy storage operators
to feed energy into the grid when energy demand is high.

Solar Energy implementation models
Solar energy systems may be implemented with the following models:

Upfront ownership: The purchaser of the solar system pays the supplier
for the capital cost and takes ownership of the solar system.

Deferred ownership: The solar system is installed and operated by the
supplier. The purchaser makes system performance-based payments to
the supplier or leases the system from the supplier. System ownership is
transferred to the purchaser on a mutually agreed date or is triggered by
a mutually agreed event.

11.0

Lille

11.2.

11,3.

11.4.

11.5.

Ld 6x

ee

Solar energy mandates and programs

Building by-laws and ECBC (Energy Conservation Building Code)
compliance: Any building type that requires ECBC compliance will follow
ECBC compliance guidelines for the installation of solar PV and solar
thermal energy systems. The Directorate of Town and Country Planning
in collaboration with local bodies and Chennai Metropolitan Development
Authority shall amend their building by-laws to mandate ECBC. The
Electrical Inspectorate or other entity as determined by the Government
will be responsible for compliance monitoring on an annual basis.

The Government will introduce a policy to promote electric vehicles, and
solar energy powered charging facilities.

All public buildings, defined as per Tamil Nadu Public Buildings (Licensing)
Act, will be encouraged to install solar energy systems, both photovoltaic
and thermal.

Corporations, municipalities and local urban bodies will be encouraged to
use solar PV energy based street lights and water supply installations.

Solar thermal for the residential, institutional and commercial segments
will be promoted.

Solar thermal applications for industrial use, including concentrated solar
power (CSP) will be promoted.

12.0

L2ids

12.2.

12.3:

12.4.

12,5.

13.0
13.1,

13.2.

13.3.

13.4.

13.5.

Incentives

Consumer category solar energy will be exempted from electricity tax for
two years from the date of this policy.

Suitable incentive schemes will be designed to promote solar energy
generation in the agricultural sector. This may include incentives to farmers,

Solar energy injected into the grid of the distribution licensee by solar
energy producers who have no renewable energy purchase obligations
(non-obligated entities), including the solar energy export by non-obligated
electricity consumers, can be claimed by the distribution licensee towards
fulfilment of their Renewable Energy Purchase Obligations (RPO).

The Government of Tamil Nadu will promote the manufacture of solar
energy components including solar cells, inverters, mounting structures
and batteries etc. in the State. Lands will be provided for the development
of solar system component manufacturing. A single window process for all
departmental approvals, including a set time limit for each approval will be
designed and managed by TEDA.

A suitable incentive scheme will be designed to promote the co-utilization
of land for solar energy projects, crop cultivation and water conservation.

Grid Connectivity and Energy Evacuation

For consumer category solar PV systems, the system capacity at the
service connection point shall not exceed 100% of the sanctioned load of
the service connection.

The maximum cumulative solar PV capacity at distribution transformer
level may be reviewed and determined by TNERC from time to time to
enable optimal solar energy penetration.

All new service connection meters in Tamil Nadu shall be configured
for bidirectional energy recording and display so that all new service
connections and existing service connections for which the meters are
replaced in the normal course of maintenance are ready for effecting solar
energy net feed-in metering at any time in the future.

For consumer category solar systems, the distribution licensee will install
the required energy meters and commission the solar metering facility
within three weeks from the date of application by the consumer.

The distribution licensee will enhance and update its billing system such
that relevant details pertaining to solar gross feed-in and net feed-in are

9
13.6.

13.7.

13.8.

13:9,

13.10.

14.0

14.1.

14.2.

14.3.

included in the electricity consumers’ bills. Distribution licensees will make
available online the billing data for each consumer, along with a sample bill
explaining the various billing components above.

The distribution licensee shall implement online applications for solar
energy metering. Distribution licensees shall also display online the status
of all solar energy metering applications received, whether online or offline.
Distribution licensees will maintain a section-wise database of solar gross
and net feed-in metering application requests, approval status, installation
and commissioning data, which will be submitted to the Government on a
periodical basis. ;

Distribution licensees shall update the status of the cumulative solar
capacity connected at each distribution transformer on their website.

For all grid connected solar energy systems the distribution licensee will
make use of the existing distribution network to the maximum extent
possible so that utilisation of such infrastructure is optimised.

For high tension consumers, open access regulations of TNERC will apply,
subject to the conditions imposed by SLDC. However wheeling for less
than 1 MW shall not be allowed.

To manage the integration of increasing quantities of renewable energy
in the Tamil Nadu grid, flexible supply side generation capacity such as
pumped hydro storage, gas turbines, flexible thermal coal power generation
and energy storage systems will have to be added by TANGEDCO and
the private sector. The Government will develop suitable strategies to
rapidly enhance flexible power generation and energy storage capacity in
consultation with TNERC and TANGEDCO.

Awareness Creation, Education and Capacity Building

All public and private schools are encouraged to introduce a curriculum on
energy and environment into their syllabus.

State Government Departments and State Public Sector Undertakings
(PSUs) will be encouraged to participate in annual solar energy and energy
conservation training programs organized by TEDA and other agencies.

All higher education institutions are encouraged to host an annual energy
and environment day to create awareness about climate change and the
benefits of renewable energy as a climate change mitigation strategy.

10

15.0

LSicls

1562

15.3

16.0

16.1.

17.0
17.1,

17.2.

17.3.

17.4,

17.5.

Solar Energy Research

Tamil Nadu will facilitate and support research in the solar energy sector.
TEDA, in collaboration with other Government Departments, will constitute
a Solar Energy Research Fund (SERF),

Tamil Nadu will closely collaborate with multi-lateral agencies to advance
solar energy research and deployment in the State.

Solar or other renewable energy projects installed for study, research or
pilot purposes may be given special priorities and exemptions by the TNERC
and the distribution licensee on the recommendation of the Government.

Monitoring and Evaluation

An inter-departmental monitoring and coordination committee for new
and renewable energy sources, including solar energy (the “Renewable
Energy Committee”) shall be constituted under Principal Secretary, Energy
for monitoring the implementation of this policy and to ensure that policy
objectives and targets are achieved.

Role of the State Agencies

TEDA shall take the jead in launching this Solar Energy Policy with the
use of media, public relations, billboards, advertisements, websites, and
more. It will also communicate amendments, if any, to this policy to major
stake holders via its website and/or other means.

TEDA will lead a comprehensive information and awareness creation effort
in order to promote solar energy in the State.

TEDA / TANGEDCO will network and coordinate with national and
international institutions that are leaders in the solar energy sector in
order to promote and enhance collaboration and joint R&D projects.

TANGEDCO will design and facilitate the development of innovative solar
energy projects in various modes including public, private, public-private
partnership and build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT) modes. TEDA will
advise TANGEDCO on these projects.

TANGEDCO wiil also initiate Energy Storage Projects / Solar Parks /
Floating Solar Parks either on its own or as Joint Venture(JV) initiatives in
collaboration with Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI).

Statutory clearances that may be required for the development and
commissioning of solar energy projects will be facilitated by TEDA with
the concerned Government departments and agencies through a single
window and time-bound process,

il

17.6.

Ted:

17.8.

17,9.

17.10.

17.11.

18.0

TEDA will facilitate and expedite access to various concessions and incentives
provided by the Ministry of New And Renewable Energy, Government of
India including capital cost subsidies, where applicable.

TEDA will provide project development and technical advice and assistance
for the implementation of solar energy projects.

TEDA will provide advisory and consulting services to corporations,
municipalities and local urban bodies on financing instruments for solar
energy projects.

TEDA will undertake periodical review of progress of solar energy projects
under development and facilitate speedy clearances and approvals if
necessary.

The Chief Electrical Inspector to Government shall notify and coordinate
with the Directorate of Town and Country Planning to obtain necessary
amendments in the building bylaws, as outlined in this policy to facilitate
extensive adoption of solar plants.

TEDA shall notify and coordinate with State Government Departments
and Public Sector Undertakings to facilitate extensive adaptation of solar
energy plants as outlined in this policy.

Operative Period

This policy shall come into effect on 04.02.2019 and shail remain valid
until superseded or modified by another policy. The Government will review
the implementation of this policy annually to evaluate the actual results
against policy objectives.

12

