            Government of Tamil Nadu

                 Tamil Nadu
     Space Industrial
                    Policy 2025




Department of Industries,
Investment Promotion & Commerce
    Government of Tamil Nadu




   Tamil Nadu
Space Industrial
       Policy 2025




        Department of Industries,
   Investment Promotion & Commerce
Contents
1. DEFINITIONS .................................................................................................................................01


2. PREAMBLE ..................................................................................................................................03


3. VISION AND MISSION ...........................................................................................................05


4. ADVANTAGE-TAMIL NADU..................................................................................................06


5. SCOPE OF TAMIL NADU SPACE INDUSTRIAL POLICY ...........................................08


6. FINANCIAL INCENTIVES & CONCESSIONS .................................................................09


7. NON-FINANCIAL INCENTIVES .............................................................................................13


8. POLICY IMPLEMENTATION....................................................................................................14
S.No.         Acronym                                   Expansion

  1     A&D             Aerospace & Defence

 2      BEE             Bureau of Energy Efficiency

 3      BIS             Bureau of Indian Standards

 4      DPSU            Defence Public Sector Units

 5      DRDO            Defence Research & Development Organisation

 6      DSIR            Department of Scientific and Industrial Research

 7      EFA             Eligible Fixed Assets

 8      ELCOT           Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited

 9      FDI             Foreign Direct Investment

 10     GDP             Gross Domestic Product

 11     IDC             Inter-Departmental Committee

 12     iDEX            Innovations for Defence Excellence

 13     IN-SPACe        Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre

 14     ISI             Indian Standards Institution

 15     ISRO            Indian Space Research Organisation

 16     ITI             Industrial Training Institute

 17     OEMs            Original Equipment Manufacturers

 18     R&D             Research & Development

 19     SIDCO           Small Industries Development Corporations

20      SIPCOT          State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu

 21     TANGEDCO        Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited

22      TIDCO           Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited
1. DEFINITIONS
  Space Industrial Unit
  A space industrial unit is defined as an entity which is engaged in any of the following
  activities:

    1. Design, engineering, manufacturing, servicing, and supply of               materials,
       components, sub-assemblies, and test equipment to OEMs (Original Equipment
       Manufacturers) or sub-tier companies of space, including ISRO, IN-SPACe, NSIL,
       ANTRIX, Defence Public Sector Units (PSU), the three Armed Forces, namely the
       Army, Navy, Air Force, and their sister agencies or organisations, such as the Coast
       Guard.

   2. Development of downstream applications in subdomains like remote sensing,
      environmental monitoring, and governance applications.

   3. Construction of launch and test facilities for the space sector.


  Industrial units that have received the AS9100 certification or ISRO PAS/PAX standards, or
  that adhere to the standards laid down by various sub committees of the Department of
  Space, are considered eligible for the purposes of this policy.

  The Industries, Investment Promotion & Commerce Department shall provide any
  additional clarification on the definition of a space industrial unit.


  Expansion Unit
  New manufacturing facilities established by an existing company—whether within the
  current site, at a new location, or on an adjacent vacant site—will be classified as
  expansion units for incentive purposes under this policy as long as the production volume
  or value of the existing unit is maintained.


  Government Industrial Park
  Industrial Parks established by any one or a combination of the following entities would
  be termed as a Government Industrial Park

         1. TIDCO
         2. SIPCOT
         3. ELCOT
         4. SIDCO


  Eligible Fixed Assets (EFA)
  As per the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021, eligible fixed assets shall include investments
  in manufacturing, such as land, buildings, plants, and machinery. To encourage
  technology transfer and R&D in this niche segment, EFA for space industrial domain shall
  additionally include the following:




                                                                                                  01
                                                              Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
  1. Expenditure incurred on new R&D: Test and measuring instruments, prototypes used
     for testing, the purchase of design tools, software cost (directly used for R&D) and
     licence fee, expenditure on technology, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), patents,
     and copyrights for R&D.

 2. Expenditure related to Transfer of Technology (ToT) Agreements: This shall include
    the cost of technology and initial technology purchase related to the manufactured
    goods in connection with manufacturing and R&D.

 3. The EFA would also include satellites or other orbital objects owned by a company.




                                     R&D Expenditure



                                          TOT Agreements




                                                Satellite / Orbital Objects




District Classification
For the purpose of providing incentives, the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021 categorises
various districts of the State into the categories tabulated below:


        District Category                           Districts covered

     “A” Category Districts          Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram
     (4 districts)                   and Tiruvallur

     “B” Category Districts          Coimbatore, Erode, Karur, Krishnagiri, Namakkal,
     (12 districts)                  The Nilgiris, Ranipet, Salem, Tiruchirappalli,
                                     Tirupattur, Tiruppur, and Vellore

     “C” Category Districts          Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul,
     (22 districts)                  Kallakurichi, Kanniyakumari, Madurai,
                                     Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Perambulur,
                                     Pudukkottai, Ramanathapuram, Sivagangai,
                                     Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Theni, Thiruvarur,
                                     Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tiruvannamalai,
                                     Villupuram and Virudhunagar




                                                                                             02
                                                          Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
2. PREAMBLE
  India's space program has emerged as a well-developed and highly successful initiative
  driven by the realisation of indigenous technologies and systems backed by strong
  government support. Over the years, it has played a pivotal role in advancing the nation's
  capabilities across various critical domains. These include weather forecasting, disaster
  management, geological studies, agriculture, satellite broadcasting, oceanographic
  research, earth observation, communication, and space domain awareness, among
  others. Furthermore, this progress has spurred growth in the industrial sector, with over
  500 Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), Public Sector Units (PSUs), and large
  private companies significantly contributing to the development and success of India's
  space endeavours.

  The global space economy was valued at USD 570 billion in 2023 and is expected to
  reach USD 600 billion in 2025.1 The growth will be driven by the increasing number of
  satellite launches, technology innovations across the space value chain, low
  manufacturing costs, and growing communication needs. The Indian space sector was
  valued at USD 9.6 billion in 2020, contributing to around 2%- 3% of the global space
  economy. The Indian space sector is projected to reach USD 13 billion by 2025.2

  In 2020, the Government of India initiated critical reforms in the space domain by
  opening the doors for enhanced participation from Non-Governmental Entities (NGE) to
  provide comprehensive services. It has released Indian Space Policy2023 to provide an
  overarching framework to support the space ecosystem.

  In the last five years, the Indian space startup ecosystem witnessed gradual expansion in
  both upstream and downstream segments, covering manufacturing of satellites, rocket
  launch vehicles, motors, and propellants, and providing analytical products based on
  satellite data for usage across other industries.


  2.1        Aerospace, Defence, and Space Manufacturing in Tamil Nadu
  Tamil Nadu is an industrial powerhouse with a solid and diverse industrial base. It has a
  highly developed industrial ecosystem across sectors such as automobiles and auto
  components, textiles, leather products, light and heavy engineering, pumps and motors,
  electronic software, and hardware manufacturing.

  The Government of Tamil Nadu has identified the Aerospace, Space, and Defence
  sectors as priority areas and promoted these sectors with the Tamil Nadu Aerospace
  and Defence Industrial Policy-2022. Under the Defence Industrial Corridor initiative, the
  Government has identified five nodes where Aerospace and Defence parks, MSME
  clusters, Defence Testing Centres, Common Facility Centres, and Centres of Excellence


  1
      Space Foundation Announces $570B Space Economy in 2023, Driven by Steady Private and Public Sector Growth.


                                                                                                                   03
  2
       https://www.investindia.gov.in/sector/space.


                                                                             Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
are being established. From the time of launch, the corridor has attracted more than 60
Aerospace and Defence companies with a cumulative investment of more than
INR 22,000 crores. The corridor has also attracted global A & D companies like Safran,
Boeing, Honeywell, IAMPL, CIRCOR and home-grown companies like Data Patterns, LMW,
L & T Defence, High Energy Batteries and Aerospace Engineers Pvt Ltd.

The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) is establishing the India’s second
spaceport at Kulasekarapattinam, Tamil Nadu. This strategic initiative aims to enhance
India’s space capabilities and facilitate satellite launches. Tamil Nadu is also home to
various successful space startups such as Agnikul Cosmos, Space Zone India, EtherealX,
OrbitAID, Vellon Space and Galaxeye which are working on subdomains such as launch
vehicles, reusable launch vehicles, in-space refuelling, in-space manufacturing and
multi-payload data fusion from satellites.

2.2   Need for Space Policy
The Government of Tamil Nadu is determined to leverage its inherent strengths and foray
into the technologically advanced and complex Space sector, which encompasses
satellite manufacturing, launch services, ground segment and satellite services. This
aspiration necessitates a dedicated policy which encourages the entry of global players,
attracts investments, and promotes MSMEs & startups in space sector.




                                            Research and
                                             Incubation


                      Existing Space                               Design and
                        Ecosystem                            Testing Infrastructure




                                             ADVANTAGE
                                         TAMIL NADU
                 Industrial                                                     Skilled
                Water Supply                                                  Resources




                            Power Infrastructure
                           and Renewable Energy          Logistics and
                                                         Connectivity




                                                                                                           04
                                                                         Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
3. VISION AND MISSION
  Vision
  To establish Tamil Nadu as the leading hub for investment, innovation, and product
  development in the space sector thereby fostering innovation and generating
  employment opportunities.



  Mission
       Develop a world-class, high-tech space manufacturing and services ecosystem.

       Develop space clusters and space technology hubs that will attract global
       OEMs, Tier-1 suppliers, leading Indian firms and startups.

       Establish Tamil Nadu as a leading space innovation hub with Centres of
       Excellence, Incubation centres and Innovation clusters.

       Leverage strengths in electronics, precision manufacturing, and related sectors
       to promote the growth of the space industry.

       Integrate space technologies into Tamil Nadu’s governance to improve citizens'
       quality of life.



  Goal
       To attract INR 10,000 Crore investment in the space sector in the next 5 years.

       To create direct & indirect employment for nearly 10,000 persons in 5 years.

       To create a skilled talent pool for the space sector in the next 5 years.




           INR 10,000 Crore                10,000 Persons                   Skilled Talent Pool
           Investment                     Employment                        Space Sector




                                                                                                  05
                                                             Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
4. ADVANTAGE-TAMIL NADU
A.   Existing Space Ecosystem
     Tamil Nadu’s space industrial ecosystem benefits significantly from its proximity to key
     ISRO facilities, like the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) in Sriharikota, Vikram
     Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) in Thiruvananthapuram, UR Rao Satellite Centre (URSC) in
     Bengaluru and ISRO Propulsion Complex (IPRC) in Mahendragiri, Tamil Nadu. This
     proximity facilitates collaboration between ISRO and Tamil Nadu’s industrial ecosystems,
     contributing to development of satellite technology, propulsion systems, and space
     research. Tamil Nadu has a significant vendor base with over 250 vendors catering to the
     requirements of ISRO. Tamilnadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO) has also
     signed a Memorandum of Understanding with IN-SPACe to enable startups and
     established companies to launch manufacturing related activities & services, design and
     R&D, strategic electronics manufacturing and space-grade components.


B.   Skilled Resource Base
     Tamil Nadu has consistently given the highest priority to technical education, with some
     of India’s leading institutions being present in the state. The State has 22 of the top 100
     Universities and 14 of the top 100 engineering colleges in the country as per the National
     Institutional Ranking Framework Report of 2024, and has the largest trained engineering
     talent pool in India. With over 143,000 engineering and around 113,000 ITI students
     graduating every year, a highly skilled talent pool is available for meeting the workforce
     requirement of various industries including Space sector.


C.   Research and Incubation Ecosystem
     Tamil Nadu is emerging as a key player in India's space industrial segment due to its
     dynamic research and incubation ecosystem. The state is leveraging its strong
     educational and industrial base to support space technology and innovation. The state
     also ranks first in the country in terms of the number of PhD holders and patents filed. IIT
     Madras has been at the forefront of space research with a focus on satellite
     technologies, propulsion systems, and space communication and collaborates with
     organisations like ISRO and private space-tech companies. ISRO has set-up 6 Space
     Technology Incubation Centres (STIC) in India and NIT Trichy hosts the STIC- Southern
     Region, which plays a pivotal role in undertaking developmental projects on behalf of
     ISRO. The Institute of Remote Sensing (IRS) has been functioning at Anna University,
     Chennai for over 4 decades with infrastructural facilities in the areas of Remote Sensing,
     Geographical Information System and Large-Scale Mapping. The Tamil Nadu
     Government’s Tamil Nadu Emerging Sector Seed Fund (TNESSF), StartupTN and iTNT Hub
     are supporting space startups and deep tech companies thereby promoting innovation
     in this sector. In Tamil Nadu, both government and private universities have dedicated
     incubation centres to support start-ups, including those catering to the space sector.




                                                                                                    06
                                                                Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
D.   Logistics and Connectivity
     With four major seaports and four international airports that offer connectivity to global
     markets, Tamil Nadu serves as a gateway to the world. While the international airports at
     Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchirappalli will serve as the inbound and
     outbound points for electronics goods related to the space sector companies, the
     Chennai and Thoothukudi ports will cater to requirement of companies involved in
     manufacturing and launching of systems and components like launch vehicles, rocket
     motors, rocket structures, and propellants.


E.   Design & Testing Infrastructure
     TIDCO has set up a number of State of the Art Centres of Excellence (CoEs) namely, Tamil
     Nadu Centre of Excellence for Advanced Manufacturing (TANCAM), Tamil Nadu
     Advanced Manufacturing Centre of Excellence (TAMCOE) and Tamil Nadu Smart and
     Advanced Manufacturing (TANSAM) for promoting Industry 4.0, as well as for providing
     testing, research, and innovation facilities. Testing and Common facility centres for
     Electronic Warfare, Electro Optics, Mechanical & Material Testing and Electro Magnetic
     Interference / Electro Magnetic Compatibility (EMI /EMC) are being established to
     support A&D industries and to augment the existing test centres like Society for Applied
     Microwave Electronics Engineering & Research (SAMEER), Standardisation Testing and
     Quality Certification (STQC) and National Test House (NTH). Additionally, Government of
     Tamil Nadu is also establishing common manufacturing facilities and Engineering
     Innovation centres in the State to support this sector.


F.   Industrial Water Supply
     The State is at the forefront in adopting new technologies like desalination and Tertiary
     Treatment Reverse Osmosis (TTRO) for meeting the needs of industries. The industrial
     regions of Chennai are supplied with water through two TTRO plants with a combined
     capacity of 90 MLD, a first of its kind initiative in India. A 20 MLD TTRO plant is being
     established near Hosur to support the industrial cluster in this region. A 60 MLD sea water
     desalination plant is also being established by SIPCOT in Thoothukudi.


G. Power Infrastructure & Renewable Energy
     Space industrial units require access to uninterrupted power supply. Tamil Nadu has one
     of the most reliable power infrastructures with an installed capacity of 38 GW and 50%
     of which is green power. Tamil Nadu also has a highly competitive power tariff in India
     and over the last several years the state ensured 100% supply for peak electricity
     demand, without load shedding.




                                                                                                   07
                                                                Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
5. SCOPE OF TAMIL NADU
   SPACE INDUSTRIAL POLICY
     Private and Public Sector Companies engaged in the following industrial activities in
     Tamil Nadu are eligible for the incentives offered in this policy.

A.   Space Industrial Manufacturing
     Companies engaged in manufacturing of the following upstream, midstream, and
     downstream segments:

            Launch platforms
            Propellants
            Satellites and payloads
            Satellite monitoring equipment
            Ground station equipment
            Space material
            Mechanical components
            Electrical and electronics
            In-space manufacturing


B.   Services in Space Industrial Segment
     Companies involved in the following

            Upgrade/life extension of products
            Engineering design and testing
            Software development
            Research and development services
            Space junk clearance
            Operation of ground stations and telemetry stations
            Development of downstream applications
            In-space maintenance
            Microgravity research
            Resupply missions
            Remote sensing

     Any other manufacturing / services related activities notified by TIDCO subsequent to
     the release of this policy




                                                                                                08
                                                              Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
6. FINANCIAL INCENTIVES &
   CONCESSIONS
  6.1     Eligibility Criteria
  Space Industrial Units would have to invest a minimum of INR 25 crore and meet a
  minimum employment threshold of 25 jobs within the standard investment period of
  three years to be eligible for incentives under this policy.³


  6.2     Incentives for Manufacturing (INR 25 cr-300 cr)

  6.2.1   Fixed Capital Subsidy
          The eligible units can avail Fixed Capital Subsidy of 20% of EFA disbursed over a
          period of 10 years. This will be disbursed after the commencement of commercial
          operations and fulfilment of investment and employment commitment as per the
          detailed project report (DPR) submitted to the Government of Tamil Nadu.

  6.2.2   Land Cost Incentive
          For eligible space industrial projects, the land cost subsidy would be as below:

      District Category          Land Type              Concession Rate             Cap as % of EFA

            A&B                Government                       20%                          20%
                              Industrial Park

             C                 Government                       50%                          20%
                              Industrial Park




                                 Private              50% (as per guideline            20% (capped
                              Industrial Park         value up to 50 acres)           at INR 2 crores)
                                                         as back ended
                                                             subsidy



  In case the investor chooses to avail a land cost subsidy, the same will be excluded from
  the eligible fixed assets for deciding the overall fixed capital subsidy.




  3
    As per the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021, the Standard Investment Period for realisation of committed
  investment and employment is 4 years.


                                                                                                                09
                                                                        Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
6.2.3   Stamp Duty Incentive
        100% concession on stamp duty payable on lease or purchase of land/ shed/
        buildings meant for industrial use shall be offered in the parks promoted by
        Government. In the case of private parks, stamp duty concession will be given as
        a 100% back-ended subsidy for up to 50 acres on fulfilment of investment and
        employment commitment.

6.2.4   Electricity Tax Exemption
        Space Industries will be given a 100% exemption on electricity tax on power
        purchased from TANGEDCO or generated and consumed from captive sources
        for the first five years from the date of commercial production. Expansion projects
        will be entitled to tax exemptions on incremental electricity consumption for
        5 years.

6.2.5   Training Subsidy
        Special training incentive of INR 10,000 per person per month can be availed for 12
        months for residents of Tamil Nadu. This incentive is only intended for employees
        engaged in technical operations within the project facility.

6.2.6   Quality & Product Certification Incentive
        Projects obtaining certifications like ISO, ISI, BIS, AS 9100, ISRO PAX/PAS, and
        ECOMARK, or any other national or international quality or product certification
        shall be given a subsidy of 50% of the total cost incurred for obtaining the
        certification, as certified by the Chartered Accountant, subject to a cap of
        INR 1 crore or 1 % of EFA (whichever is lower). This can be claimed for five years
        from the date of the commencement of operations. Expenses incurred before the
        commencement of operations will also be disbursed over this 5-year period.

6.2.7   Enhanced Incentive for Intellectual Property Creation
        The Government will reimburse 50% of the expenditure incurred by the company
        for obtaining patents, copyrights, trademarks, as certified by the Chartered
        Accountant, subject to a cap of INR 1 crore or 1 % of EFA (whichever is lower). This
        can be claimed for five years from the date of the commencement of operations.


6.3     Space Startups – Funding
Multiple funding options are available for space startups in the country. The Government
of India through IN-SPACe has set up a venture fund with a corpus of INR 1000 crore for
funding space startups. Innovations for Defence Excellence (iDEX) initiative under the
Defence Innovation Organisation (DIO) and Technology Development Fund under DRDO
encourages and promotes innovators/ technocrats/ professionals /academicians in
defence and space sector. Government of Tamil Nadu has established the Tamil Nadu
Emerging Sector Seed Fund for investing in startups across various domains, including
the space sector. Through the TANSEED fund, the Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation
Mission (StartupTN) has been funding startups including those in space and defence


                                                                                               10
                                                            Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
sector. Government of Tamil Nadu has announced Tamil Nadu Space Tech Fund with a
corpus of Rs 10 crores to support Space Startups. This fund would be managed by
StartupTN.

TIDCO is formulating a ‘Startup Investment Policy’ under which eligible startups in certain
sunrise sectors would be supported with equity funding. Promising startups in space
sector may be supported with equity funding under this policy or through the Emerging
Sector Seed Fund of Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation (TNIFMC).
Priority would be given to startups which have won at national and state level hack-
athons including iDEX and IN-SPACe events.


6.4     Incentives for setting up of Space Industrial Parks
The Government of Tamil Nadu is actively promoting the use of private land for industrial
use through the development of integrated industrial parks in the State. The following
incentives shall be offered to developers of Mega and Ultra-Mega Industrial Parks, i.e.
investment greater than Rs. 500 cr. (including the cost of land), in “B” & “C” category
districts, in addition to standard incentives.

The criteria for an approved space industrial park are provided in Annexure
6.4.1   Capital Subsidy
        Industrial Park developers shall be eligible for a capital subsidy of 12% or 15% of
        investment in internal infrastructure (such as internal roads, water distribution
        infrastructure, street lighting, drainage facilities, landscaping, and green areas,
        but excluding the cost of land and landfilling/levelling) in ‘B’ or ‘C’ category districts
        respectively. This shall be provided based on the following milestones:

           (i) 50% of the amount determined as capital subsidy upon paid-up allotment
               of 50% park area along with 10% operational units, i.e. either 10% of units
               achieving commercial production or units occupying 10% of park area
               achieving commercial production. This shall be distributed in equal annual
               instalments over 5 years.
           (ii) 50% of the amount determined as capital subsidy upon paid-up allotment
                of 75% park area with 25% operational units, i.e. either 25% of units
                achieving commercial production or units occupying 25% of park area
                achieving commercial production. This shall be distributed in equal annual
                instalments over 5 years.

6.4.2   Space Industrial Housing Incentive
        In addition to Capital Subsidy, space industrial park developers will be eligible for
        industrial housing incentive of 10% on the cost of developing the residential
        facilities developed within the industrial park over 10 years from the date of
        completion of the investment in the housing facility, subject to a ceiling of
        Rs. 10 crore.




                                                                                                     11
                                                                Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
6.4.3      Green Industry Incentive
           Space industrial park developers undertaking green and sustainable initiatives as
           listed in Para 13.5 of TN Industrial Policy 2021 shall be eligible for a 25% subsidy on
           cost of capital of setting up undertaking such initiatives, subject to a limit of
           Rs. 5 crore.

6.5        Incentives for Service Sector
The Government of Tamil Nadu would provide a payroll subsidy for Companies that are
involved in Research & Development or establish Global Capability Centres in the space
sector. Eligible units should fulfil the following criteria to avail the incentives

      a.    The entity must create a minimum of 25 jobs within a period of 4 years.

      b.    The entity must be engaged in design/research with clearly demarcated
            facility(ies) within Tamil Nadu or establish its GCC in Tamil Nadu.

      c.    The employees should be residents of Tamil Nadu.

The payroll incentive per employee would be capped at INR 20,000 per month and would
be paid out as tabulated below:


           Period of incentive                          % of employee salary

                  Year 1                                          30%

                 Year 2                                           20%

                 Year 3                                           10%

Companies involved in other service sub-sectors in the space domain can avail a
one-time employment incentive in the form of reimbursement of the employer’s contri-
bution of Public Provident Fund (PPF) up to INR 48,000 per annum for employees (who are
residents of Tamil Nadu) for 2 years from the time of onboarding. To avail this incentive,
the firm should have at least 25 employees on its payroll in Tamil Nadu.

6.6        Special Structured Package of Incentives
A special structured incentive package will be offered to projects with committed
investments of more than INR 300 crores as per the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021. This
may consist of a combination of incentives including fixed capital subsidy, flexible capital
subsidy, turnover based subsidy, payroll subsidy, land cost subsidy and special training
subsidy.

The Government of Tamil Nadu shall notify select regions as 'Space Bay,' where a
structured package of incentives will also be offered for investments below INR 300 crore.




                                                                                                     12
                                                                 Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
7. NON-FINANCIAL INCENTIVES
  The Government of Tamil Nadu plans to catalyse the space ecosystem and promote
  growth of space sector through the following.

  7.1    Common Facility Centres and Centres of Excellence
  TIDCO will facilitate the establishment of common facility centres and Centres of
  Excellence in collaboration with IN-SPACe and other government and private companies
  to create the necessary common infrastructure and promote the growth of the space
  industry in Tamil Nadu.

  7.2    Human Capital Development
  The Government of Tamil Nadu through its flagship scheme Naan Mudhalvan imparts
  skill training to youth to meet the growing market demand for skilled manpower. Naan
  Mudhalvan provides free employment linked - skill development trainings to the Youth in
  the age group of 18-35 years across the state under the various state and centrally
  sponsored schemes in sectors like Healthcare, Media & Entertainment, IT & ITES, Leather,
  Defence and Space. This will ensure availability of skilled human capital to meet
  requirement of space sector.

  7.3    Industrial Housing
  The Government of Tamil Nadu is a pioneer in promoting the concept of industrial
  housing. The Government has set up a special purpose vehicle, “Tamil Nadu Industrial
  Housing Private Limited (TNIHPL)” to provide sustainable and affordable housing solutions
  for industrial workers catering to demand especially in and around industrial estates,
  industrial clusters, and other key locations across Tamil Nadu.

  To support space industrial hubs, industrial housing facilities will be created in
  collaboration with stakeholders. These housing enclaves would provide adequate social
  infrastructure for the inhabitants and enhance their quality of life.

  7.4    Industrial Ecosystem Fund
  The Government of Tamil Nadu has setup the Industrial Ecosystem Fund (IEF) to support
  infrastructure projects and create industrial ecosystem. Necessary infrastructure
  required to support space industrial projects and industrial parks like last mile
  connectivity, water supply, power and drains would be supported by IEF.

  7.5    Adoption of Space Technologies
  The Government of Tamil Nadu will advocate adoption and usage of space technologies
  in various departments to enhance service delivery and improve efficiency.

  Space technologies have immense applications in departments like Disaster Manage-
  ment, Fisheries, Agriculture, Transport, Revenue, Health, Municipal Administration and
  Forest. The Government will mandate adoption of such technologies in all departments
  to provide better services to residents.




                                                                                               13
                                                            Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
8. POLICY IMPLEMENTATION
  8.1    Nodal Agency
  The incentives discussed in Sections 6 shall be provided to eligible units by the Industries,
  Investment Promotion & Commerce Department based on the proposals sent by
  Guidance Tamil Nadu / TIDCO and on the recommendation of the Inter-Departmental
  Committee (IDC). The disbursement of incentives shall be made by SIPCOT. Facilitations
  for clearances, licences and approvals shall be undertaken by Guidance Tamil Nadu
  through its single window portal. A representative of TIDCO would be part of this IDC for
  all space sector proposals.

  8.2    Term of Policy
  This policy shall be valid for a period of 5 years from the date of the policy notification, or
  till a new policy is announced.

  8.3    Applicability for Expansions
  The investor can choose to avail of the incentives sanctioned under the policy for future
  expansions.

  8.4    Operational Guidelines
  The definitions, general conditions for sanction of incentives, general conditions for
  availing incentives, conditions for changes in the company or investment plan after
  sanction of incentives, eligibility criteria and procedure for application of eligibility
  certificate, procedure for sanction of incentives and sanctioning authorities and
  procedure for claiming incentives and implementation agencies shall be as per Tamil
  Nadu Industrial Policy 2021 or as notified by the Government of Tamil Nadu.




                                                                                                    14
                                                                Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
 Annexure – Components of an Approved Space Industrial Park
1. Criteria for approval
  a) Minimum area of 100 acres in legal possession of applicant
  b) Should be meant primarily for manufacturing activities
  c) Should have provision for at least 5 major manufacturing units and 20 MSMEs
  d) Should not have more than 10% wet land or double crop land
  e) Should not include (for contiguity) more than 5% of Government land

2. Processing Area: not less than 65% of total area
  a) Industrial plots for manufacturing
  b) Ready built sheds for industrial use
  c) R&D Centres
  d) Testing & Certification Centres
  e) Pathways and Roads

3. Non- Processing Area: not more than 35% area
  a) Business related non-processing area – not more than 20% of total area
       Office space for business support to processing area
       Customs bonded warehouses and ICDs
       Convention Centres
       Business centres – financial services
       Education and Skill training centres related to processing area
       Guest houses for use by businesses in processing area

  b) Social Infrastructure – not more than 15% of total area
       Housing
       School
       Hospitals
       General purpose education and training institutions
       Entertainment & shopping centres
       Open spaces, roads, and pathways




                                                                                                  15
                                                               Tamil Nadu Space Industrial Policy 2025
Notes
Notes
            jkpo;ehL njhopy; tsu;r;rp epWtdk;
     TAMILNADU INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                (A Government of Tamil Nadu Enterprise)



19-A, Rukmani Lakshmipathy Road, Egmore, Chennai-600 008, Tamil Nadu, India.
