Tamil Nadu Startup &
Innovation Policy
2018 - 2023




        Government of Tamil Nadu
Micro, Small and Medium
Enterprises Department
                                CONTENTS
                            TABLE OF


 1 TAMIL NADU VISION 2023
 2 VISION
2 MISSION
2 CORE POLICY OBJECTIVES
 3 DEFINITION
 4 NODAL AGENCY
 4 ACTION PLAN
14 GENERAL SUPPORT
15 EXCLUSIONS
15 IMPLEMENTATION
  1 TAMIL NADU VISION 2023
Tamil Nadu is one of the economic power houses of India. Entrepreneurship, social
mobility, economic growth and technology innovation have defined the growth story of
the State. Today, the State has the potential to further enhance this by supporting the
knowledge and capability of individuals to create new technology-driven enterprises to
address challenges and take advantage of the opportunities present. This further
complements “Tamil Nadu Vision 2023” goal of attaining a GSDP growth at a sustained
pace of 11% per annum for the coming years.


The contribution of the State to India’s GDP is phenomenal in sectors like Automobiles,
Commercial vehicles, Auto parts, Leather products, Textiles, Software and ITeS. The
scope of the state for technical innovation and product development is ample. In terms
of infrastructure, Tamil Nadu is one of the best performing States in the country. With
the highest GER, the State is the destination for students from various States, providing
the highest number of skilled manpower and one among the best in terms of technically
qualified manpower. Tamil Nadu houses the best and renowned Incubator of the
country, namely, the IIT-Madras and many promising Incubators catering to the needs of
entrepreneurs, students and researchers for innovating new products and processes in
various fields. The State is increasingly becoming the destination for Startups in
Software-as-a-service (SaaS). Thus the State is a potential anchor for many Startups not
only in Tamil Nadu but also those thriving all over the country.




   The Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Policy 2018-2023, aims to provide an
   enabling, innovative ecosystem in the State. Implementation of the policy will
   enable the State to emerge as the “Knowledge Capital” and “Innovation Hub” of the
   country. It will also attract entrepreneurs and investors across the globe.



The policy is presumed to nurture innovation, investment in R&D, infrastructure,
knowledge creation, technological development and skilled manpower, resulting in high
growth entrepreneurial ventures across the spectrum of sectors from agriculture,
manufacturing, healthcare, education, logistics, social sector, urban development,
environment, to Fintech and ICT.




                                         Page 1
 2. VISION
      To make Tamil Nadu a Global Innovation Hub and the most preferred
      destination for Startups by 2023.


 3. MISSION
       To create, support and nurture a vibrant Startup ecosystem in Tamil
       Nadu   resulting   in   innovation   and   entrepreneurship   driven
       employment and economic growth, facilitating creation of at least
       5000 Startups including 10 global high growth Startups by 2023.




4 CORE POLICY OBJECTIVES
4.1. Encourage, facilitate and support emergence of at least 5000 technology
startups in the State.
4.2. Extend a dedicated support to at least 10 global high growth startups
developing innovative technology solution for high social impact in sectors like
sanitation, food, clean energy, healthcare, education, etc.
4.3. Establish support infrastructure and strengthen the existing mechanism in the
thrust areas: Transportation & Logistics, Electrical & Electronics, Health Care &
Bio-tech, Agriculture, Renewable energy, Climate change, Fintech, Textile,
Information Technology (IT), Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI),
Machine Learning (ML) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS).
4.4. Network (public and private) stakeholders
4.5. Collaborate with educational institutions to promote entrepreneurship among
the youth.
4.6. Maximise industry engagement.
4.7. Provide adequate incentives and resources to startups, facilitators, mentors
and investors to promote startup culture in the State.
4.8. Reduce the existing regulatory and tax burden on startups in the field of
Labour, Pollution and building norms and base these on self-certification.
4.9. Nurture budding startups defined as START STEPs to graduate into startups.
4.10. Partner with reputed investors across India and the Globe to invest in Tamil
Nadu startups.
4.11. Brand startup Hubs in geographically distinct locations – Chennai,
Coimbatore, Salem-Erode, Madurai, Trichy-Thanjavur, Tirunelveli, etc.

                                    Page 2
 5 DEFINITION
   5.1. START-STEP:
   An aspiring entity or individual who develops an idea with a business model based
   on product/process/service innovation that is potentially scalable and replicable
   and generate employment and wealth.
   5.2. STARTUP :
   An entity working towards innovation, development or improvement of products or
   processes or services, or if it is a scalable business model with a high potential of
   employment generation or wealth creation.



   An entity will be recognised as startup only if it satisfies the following conditions:
     The company/entity is registered in the State under the Tamil Nadu Startup and
   innovaTN Mission (TANSIM); and
    If it is incorporated as a private limited company (as defined in the Companies Act,
   2013) or registered as a partnership firm (registered under section 59 of the
   Partnership Act, 1932) or a limited liability partnership (under the Limited Liability
   Partnership Act, 2008) in India; and
     Up to seven years from the date of its incorporation/ registration; however, in the
   case of startups in the biotechnology, Artificial Intelligence (AI) & Machine Learning
   (ML) sectors, the period shall be up to ten years from the date of its incorporation/
   registration; and
    If its turnover for any of the financial years since incorporation/ registration has not
   exceeded Rs. 25 crores;

   Provided that any such entity formed by splitting up or reconstruction
   of a business already in existence shall not be considered a ‘Startup’.



This broad definition of startups in Tamil Nadu is intended to be inclusive and
facilitating to support entrepreneurship across the State. The policy will encourage
startups from Tamil Nadu to follow Government of India norms that define a startup to
access Central level benefits and incentives.




                                         Page 3
  6 NODAL AGENCY
Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute(EDII) shall act as nodal agency
to promote and facilitate startups in the State. Within EDII, a mission, TANSIM, headed
by a fulltime in-charge Officer, shall be created which will function as One-Stop-Shop to
advocate and oversee policies and programmes for promoting startups.

A Tamil Nadu Startup & Innovation Council (TANSIL) with senior officers, various
stakeholders, including startups, venture funds, educational institutions, Incubators etc
to be headed by the Chief Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu shall be constituted
to review and advice TANSIM.




  7 ACTION PLAN
The Tamil Nadu Startup and innovation Policy shall focus on driving entrepreneurship
and innovation in the State through 5 priority actions:

         Creating conducive ecosystem for encouraging entrepreneurship and
         innovations.
         Ensuring adequate resources channelled to the startup ecosystem.
         Enabling skill development and inclusive job creation.
         Extending support to social entrepreneurship for a positive social
         impact and inclusion.
         Establishing global accessibility, connections and partnerships.



Startups registered with TANSIM and located in Tamil Nadu shall be entitled to receive
any of the stated Government benefits.




              Creating conducive                   Ensuring adequate                   Enabling skill
          ecosystem for encouraging             resources channelled to              development and
       entrepreneurship and innovations          the startup ecosystem             inclusive job creation




                       Extending support to social           Establishing global
                      entrepreneurship for a positive     accessibility, connections
                        social impact and inclusion           and partnerships



                                                 Page 4
       7.1. Creating conducive ecosystem for encouraging entrepreneurship and
       innovations
       Tamil Nadu is well endowed with science and engineering talent pool. This
       indigenous intellectual capital would be strengthened and leveraged to create
       entrepreneurial ventures through the following plan of action:

  7.1.1. Ease of doing business

7.1.1.1. A ‘One-Stop-Shop’ guided by a portal and ably supported by a help-desk will be
set up to facilitate registration, compliances and certification.
7.1.1.2. TANSIM will recognise / register a Start-step or Startup within 10 days from
receipt of online application.
7.1.1.3. Online time bound grievance redressal mechanism for startups.


  7.1.2. Resource Centre and Registry

7.1.2.1. A centralised registry-cum-repository on venture firms, incubators, intellectual
property support centres, mentors, database of different talents for Startups to hire,
stakeholders and other activities supported by Government of Tamil Nadu and
Government of India, which can be leveraged by startups, will be established.
7.1.2.2. The agency will host an online sub portal for Startups to apply for and avail
grants and other benefits.



  7.1.3. Help Centre

7.1.3.1. A help centre to address queries related to registration, compliance and
accessing benefits for Startups will be housed in TANSIM.
7.1.3.2. The help centre will also provide promotional and PR platform to startups for
dissemination of information related to startup conferences and events.


  7.1.4. Policy simplification

7.1.4.1. Existing labour laws and technical regulations will be reviewed and simplified.
7.1.4.2. Self-certification to be accepted from startups where there are no technical
regulations which need to be complied with, such as compliance with EPFO, ESIC,
Minimum Wages, Bonus, Gratuity etc.




                                        Page 5
7.1.4.3. Third Party Certification alone will be required where technical regulations had
to be complied with such as Boilers Act, Factories Act, the Tamil Nadu Lifts Act, etc.
7.1.4.4. TANSIM will engage with the Government in policy advocacy in emerging and
disruptive areas as well as in regulatory dismantling for outdated regulations.
7.1.4.5. Suitable regulations/orders will be notified under applicable State laws and
codes to enable faster exits for startups that shut down in tandem with Government of
India notifications.


  7.1.5. Intellectual property (IP) support centres


7.1.5.1. TANSIM shall identify and empanel private IP Centres to partner or engage
with startup networks, associations, co-working spaces, etc. to provide IPR guidance to
startups.
7.1.5.2. Existing IP Support Centres will also be strengthened to serve as Patent
Information Centres (PICs) and/or Intellectual Property Facilitation Centres (IPFCs).



  7.1.6. Public procurement


7.1.6.1. Government procurement policy will encourage participation of startups in
tenders of smaller value through relaxation in prior existence & turnover criteria, EMD
payments, waiver of tender cost and extend procurement preference available to
domestic MSMEs as per Tender Transparency Act, 2016.
7.1.6.2. Mission shall facilitate procurement of product/services of impactful startups
on pilot basis.
7.1.6.3. State Government departments and undertakings may make use of the
services of startups registered with TANSIM for low value procurements, subject to the
condition that the Tender Inviting Authority can purchase not more than two
products/services in a given financial year from one startup.
7.1.6.4. Mission shall act as a tender/ public procurement information centre for
startups.



    7.2. Ensuring adequate resources channelled to the Startup ecosystem
    Government of Tamil Nadu will provide a positive and motivating business climate
    for growth and acceleration of startups. Support provided to startups will be in line
    with goals set under Vision 2023 and complement support available under the
    Startup India Action Plan, 2016.


                                        Page 6
 7.2.1 Policy research group & regulation


A Policy research group (Think tank) shall be set up to carry out research on startup eco-
system. The group will prioritize working with startups operating in disruptive areas/
technologies to access Government, institutions and other stakeholders to share required
information and encourage innovation and facilitate market & policy adoption.



 7.2.2 Incubators / Accelerators

7.2.2.1. Industrial organisations and private commercial organisations will be
encouraged to setup Incubators/Accelerators using funds allocated under schemes of
Niti Aayog, DST, DBT, DEITY and MSME-DO of Government of India. The State
Government will provide necessary matching grants as per scheme guidelines.
Incubators in higher educational institutions shall be encouraged to open up to general
public.
7.2.2.2. CSR funding will be targeted to promote corporate and private Incubators.
State PSUs and CPSUs shall be encouraged to adopt Incubators and channelize CSR
funds. These Incubators shall also serve as an innovation sandbox to solve problems
faced by PSUs and CPSUs which in turn, shall support startups with access to platform,
test bed, data, handholding etc.
7.2.2.3. Provide support to facilitators, Incubatees, etc. to develop a concept/idea into
a prototype/product.
7.2.2.4. Establish a Learning & Development team at the TANSIM.
7.2.2.5. Private institutions/entities will be encouraged to support State initiatives for
supporting entrepreneurship development by hosting fellows, conducting programmes
in conjunction with State policies and furthering the mission of entrepreneurship
development at a large scale. They will also be given special status by allowing ease of
doing business to accommodate startups in their premises (address registration) and
other such requirements to facilitate and increase the number of startups in the State.
7.2.2.6. The Mission shall implement a system to network the existing Incubators to
leverage pre-established assets.
7.2.2.7. The Mission shall ensure that Government funded institutional Incubators are
open for public access at least 16 hours a day and are open throughout the year except
National/State holidays (i.e. 16X7).
7.2.2.8. Establishment of sector specific niche Incubators shall be encouraged by the
Mission.




                                         Page 7
7.2.2.9. Government will encourage Technology Business Incubators with training
programmes, accelerator programmes and business facilitation services under the
               TM
brand ‘incubaTN ’.
7.2.2.10. State Government will allot land at nominal lease for duration of 99 years to
establish ‘Startup Parks’ at appropriate places by entrepreneurs/Startups including
NRIs from Tamil Diaspora.
7.2.2.11. The Government will encourage entrepreneurs by giving access to relevant
data/information for the purpose of creating apps and technologies for public-good.



  7.2.3. Funding


7.2.3.1. The State will ensure adequate budget for entrepreneurship development and
startups.
7.2.3.2. The State will set up Tamil Nadu Startup Fund of Funds of INR 250 crore to be
managed by a professional financial agency such as SIDBI. It will be registered as an
Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) under SEBI regulation, 2012.The fund will be invested
in other SEBI registered AIFs for investment in Startups and MSMEs established in Tamil
Nadu. Government of Tamil Nadu will invest INR 75 crore in the fund. The first tranche
of INR 25 crore will be allotted in FY 2019-2020.
7.2.3.3. Innovative ideas shall be nurtured by special innovation programs (such as
Innovation Voucher Program).
7.2.3.4. A Tamil Nadu Startup Seed Grant Fund (TNSSGF) of Rs. 50 Crore with an
allotment of Rs. 5 Crore in the first year shall be created in partnership with Financial
Institutions and Universities for supporting early stage financing requirements of the
startups in the form of grants to fill the gap in fund requirement for research &
innovations. The TNSSGF would also provide funding for Idea-to-PoC (Proof of Concept)
stages which are pre-startup activities. This will be similar to the erstwhile
Technopreneur Promotion Programme (TePP) grant provided by DSIR and would
support prototyping and testing of innovative ideas of students/ faculty/ individuals.
TANSIM shall manage this fund, which will be governed by a professional Scientific
Startup Seed Fund Board.
7.2.3.5. The TNSSGF shall also provide revolving fund up to a maximum
of Rs.50 lakh to academic institutional & private technology business
Incubators (TBI), provided the TBI mobilises fund in the ratio of 1:3
(TNSSGF: TBIs) through industry or from its own resources and the
TBI is registered as a Section 8 company and is open to public.
7.2.3.6. Efforts will also be made to attract NRI/PIO/angel
investors/Ventures and Private Equity investors to fund startups.

                                         Page 8
  7.2.4. Grants


7.2.4.1. TANSIM will conduct outreach programmes in partnership with reputed
agencies, colleges, Incubators and approved private entities across the State.
7.2.4.2. Academic Institutions will be assisted in tapping research grants from BIRAC,
DST/NSTEDB, CSIR, DEITY and GITA in collaboration with industry, generating product
or process innovations.
7.2.4.3. Corporate groups, CPSUs and SPSUs will be motivated to fund Incubators and
startup programmes using CSR regulations in force.
7.2.4.4. State Government will work with SLBC and leading banks to reposition few
Bank branches in district headquarters as Startup & MSME support branches.
Orientation programme will be organised to sensitise the Managers.
7.2.4.5. TANSIM shall facilitate startups in marketing and R&D activities.




    7.3. Enabling skill development and inclusive job creation



  7.3.1. Skill development


To provide impetus for fostering innovation in academia, the Government of Tamil Nadu
aims to augment academic research and campus environment through structured
programmes and incentives to:
   Students, Faculty, Innovators and Entrepreneurs.
   University spin-outs
   Academic and research Institutions.
   Private and public sector organizations involved in entrepreneurship development.




   7.3.2. To ensure that the youth of the State are Industry/ Startup ready, the
   following will be supported:

7.3.2.1. Facilitating industry-academia interaction.
7.3.2.2. Institute a window for demand-based modern courses/programmes to help
the ever evolving startup/industry.



                                         Page 9
7.3.2.3. Channelize programmes/funds from Central and
State agencies/Departments.
7.3.2.4. Introduce entrepreneurship as part of curriculum in
schools and colleges (including polytechnics and ITIs) as per
AICTE policy.
7.3.2.5. Encourage Entrepreneurship Development &
Innovation Councils (ED&IC) headed by a willing and qualified
faculty member and student led Entrepreneurship cells (E-Cell) to promote startups,
entrepreneurship & innovation activities in the campuses.
7.3.2.6. Decentralize innovation by establishing fablabs/tinkering labs/maker-spaces
that will serve as a bridge between innovators and Incubators.
7.3.2.7. Introduce academic credits for students who choose entrepreneurship
related learning activity at colleges in line with AICTE policy.
7.3.2.8. Internship and apprenticeship for students in graduate courses in science,
technology or professional courses shall be introduced for a minimum period of 6
months in any industry, in one stretch or in two stretches of minimum of 3 months,
through reworking of the apprenticeship policy of the State Government.
7.3.2.9. Special grace marks and attendance relaxation shall be allowed to students,
if their project work is converted into a startup in the Incubator.
7.3.2.10. Universities and Colleges will encourage as many startups with
inter-departmental and inter-institutional participation, taking note of the fact that
startup planning and management requires inter-disciplinary skills.
7.3.2.11. A deferred placement support system will be introduced in all colleges in
consultation with industry as a measure of risk mitigation against failure of student
startups.
7.3.2.12. Students shall be allowed to undertake a maximum of 2 years as
entrepreneurship break with attachment to an Incubator, after completion of the third
year, on application to the college. This break would not be counted towards the number
of years for graduation, subject to appraisal by the Incubator along with documents of
entrepreneurship or product development.
7.3.2.13. Permit faculty to transform their/student research projects developed at
universities/colleges to become startups and also to hold equity in such startups.
7.3.2.14. Academic institutions shall promote translational / applied R & D/
Collaborative industrial R & D.
7.3.2.15. Provide training programmes for both startups as well as startup/industry
ready employees to bridge the gap between industry requirement and current
curriculum.


                                       Page 10
  7.3.3. Introducing entrepreneurship competencies in schools


The world view of economic development has completely changed. It is increasingly
knowledge-driven. This mandates a new approach to inculcate innovation &
entrepreneurship from high-school level. The following will be fostered:

7.3.3.1. School level entrepreneurship programmes to inculcate entrepreneurship as a
career choice and provide basic foundational understanding.
7.3.3.2. State-wide competitions and challenges around innovation and
entrepreneurship for school students. Winners of competitions and challenges will be
offered access to interesting startups and E-cell run fab-lab facilities in Universities to
explore their winning ideas
7.3.3.3. Gamified entrepreneurship concepts.


  7.3.4. Job creation


The mission shall aim for a minimum of 1,00,000 high skilled direct and indirect job
creation in the startup ecosystem.




    7.4. Supporting social entrepreneurship for a positive social impact and inclusion

    Tamil Nadu is a welfare State and social inclusion has been
    one of the key factors for its sustained growth. There is
    always a need to provide an equitable platform for women,
    economically disenfranchised, differently-abled and
    transgender for greater social stability. While Tamil Nadu is
    emerging as a global economic powerhouse, there is still a
    considerable income gap among different strata of the
    society. Rural and Social enterprises could play a huge role
    in bridging this gap.


   7.4.1. Government of Tamil Nadu aims to offer the following support:


7.4.1.1 The Mission shall extend additional support for startups that are eco-friendly
green startups.
7.4.1.2 The Mission shall provide special focus to the startups creating Social Impact
in areas like water, waste management, health, food, education, climate change, etc. by
dedicating a portion of the venture fund.

                                         Page 11
7.4.1.3 Mission shall encourage student participation in social impact centric
activities.
7.4.1.4 The Mission shall encourage rural entrepreneurship through venture funding
and support rural-based startups and Incubators.
7.4.1.5 The Mission will organise Grand Challenges on specific social, rural and
environmental problems under hackathon programme. Selected innovative solutions
shall be awarded an initial grant and follow-on funding for piloting the idea.
7.4.1.6 The Government will create a mechanism to adopt technologies/models
developed by rural/social entrepreneurs.




  7.4.2 Women




7.4.2.1 Prioritize by and for women startups.
7.4.2.2 Training and sensitization programmes for women entrepreneurs.
7.4.2.3 Startups with a women founders or co-founders shall be supported for product
development and marketing/publicity/participation in fairs and exhibitions.
7.4.2.4 Priority in allotment of industrial plots in industrial estates for women
startups.
7.4.2.5 Support for setting up crèche in startups/incubators/co-working spaces with
more than 50 employees.
7.4.2.6 Startups addressing issues related to women shall also be eligible for the
above support.




  7.4.3 Transgender



7.4.3.1 Promote and assist startups where the founder or co-founder is transgender.
7.4.3.2 Training and sensitization programmes on entrepreneurship for transgender
entrepreneurs.




                                      Page 12
7.4.3.3 Support under the New Entrepreneur-cum-Enterprise Development Scheme
(NEEDs).
7.4.3.4 Priority in procurement & marketing assistance.
7.4.3.5 Startups focusing on transgender empowerment shall also be eligible for the
above support.



  7.4.4 Differently-abled

7.4.4.1 Promote      and    assist   startups    where   the   founder   or   co-founder    is
differently-abled.
7.4.4.2 Training and sensitization              programmes     on   entrepreneurship       for
differently-abled entrepreneurs.
7.4.4.3 Priority in procurement & marketing assistance.
7.4.4.4 Startups working in the field of differently-abled shall also be eligible for
support.



    7.5   Establishing global accessibility, connections and partnerships

    7.5.1 Startup Mission will organise meets, webinars and
    Video conferences on startup/entrepreneurship with,
    NRI/PIO, Indian startup experts, global investors, other
    leading ecosystems to create a global connect for the local
    startups to identify and adopt best practices. Efforts will
    also be made to attract NRI/PIO investors to set up local
    VCs and angel funds.
    7.5.2 The Mission shall partner with International
    Governments and global networks to promote exchange programmes. 100
    outstanding startup entrepreneurs will be exposed to global best practices with the
    help of global accelerators/startup hubs/academic & research institutions.
    7.5.3 Startup Summits will be organised every year at regional and State level to
    showcase startups and business innovations and to provide a platform to
    stakeholders for collaboration in the startup ecosystem. Innovation awards for high
    growth startups and stakeholders making outstanding contribution to the startup
    ecosystem.
    7.5.4 Regional level innovation contests/hackathons/Grand Challenges will be
    organized/financially supported with final culmination events in Chennai every year.


                                          Page 13
7.5.5 Support shall be extended for startup focused programmes, workshops and
internship drives organised by Incubators, educational institutions, startup
networks/communities/groups, organisations and other reputed startup ecosystem
partners.
7.5.6 An Open Innovation portal shall be set up by Mission for posting governance,
societal and industrial challenges needing innovative solutions in public domain to find
solutions. Funding support shall be given to the crowd sourced innovative solution for
further refining and development.
7.5.7 The Government will partner with leading organizations such as World Bank,
WHO etc. to fund and support projects with social impact.
7.5.8 Tamil Nadu shall also be marketed as an ideal test-bed for students, youth and
social entrepreneurs across the world to come and work on live projects in the State.
7.5.9 TANSIM will take measures to attract global talent and resources to foster
innovation and enrich the local ecosystem with events, job opportunities, courses,
exchanges, etc.




  8 GENERAL SUPPORT
The Mission shall implement the following welfare
measures to encourage startups in the State:


        8.1. Support for services like IPR, Legal, Auditing, Accounting etc.
        through fee credits. Entrepreneur Redeeming Card shall be introduced.
        8.2. Financial support shall be extended for attending trainings, tech
        conferences and trade shows. Entrepreneurs recognised by the State or
        Startup India will be eligible for a one-time training grant of 75% of the
        training cost subject to a maximum of Rs 1 lakh for undergoing high
        impact entrepreneurship training with any reputed agency of their
        choice.
        8.3. Benefits/exemptions available under the IT/ITeS policy of Tamil
        Nadu Government shall be available for all startups, investors,
        incubators and research parks.
        8.4. Startups will be given priority in allotment of plots in the SIDCO
        industrial estates and also on concessional lease or rent.



                                       Page 14
  9 EXCLUSIONS
An entity in order to qualify as a startup under this policy should not have been:

    9.1. Formed by a demerger or reconstitution of a business already in
    existence.
    9.2. A subsidiary of a firm in the State, except subsidiary of a startup itself
    which also qualifies as startup and the combined entity also satisfies the
    startup criteria.
    9.3. A franchisee of an existing business in the State.
    9.4. Promoted or sponsored by or related to an Industrial group in the State
    whose group turnover exceeds Rs. 300 crore.
    9.5. The holding company deriving more than 50% of its income from
    investments and loans.




10 IMPLEMENTATION
10.1. Operational guidelines and clarifications will be issued from time to time.
10.2. The performance of this policy will be reviewed by the TANSIL every six months
based on KPIs to be fixed by the council. Among other metrics, the Compass World
Ecosystem Ranking methodology would be used to benchmark cities like Chennai and
Coimbatore.
10.3. The Mission will also arrange for annual evaluation of the policy and the report
shall be placed before the State Startup and Innovation Council for review and direction.
10.4. This Policy is valid for a period of 5 years from the date of its notification or till a
new policy is formulated. However, amendments in this policy could be made with the
approval of the Cabinet without affecting the beneficiaries already covered under the
policy. The policy shall be reviewed every five years.




                                          Page 15
Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute
(An Autonomous Body of the Government of Tamil Nadu)
Parthasarathy Koil Street, SIDCO Industrial Estate,

Ekkaduthangal, Guindy, Chennai 600032,

Tamil Nadu, India.

+91 44 2225 2081/82/83/84

www.editn.in

fb.com/EDITamilNadu

twitter.com/edichennaitn
