Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles &
       Khadi Department




               TAMILNADU
      NEW INTEGRATED TEXTILE POLICY
                 2019
                              CONTENTS

S.No.                         Details            Page No.
 1.     PREAMBLE                                  1
 2.     NEED FOR NEW INTEGRATED TEXTILE POLICY    3
 3.     OBJECTIVES                                4
 4.     FOCUS AREAS OF POLICY                     5
 5.     APPROACH                                  6
 6.     OPERATIONAL PERIOD OF POLICY              6
 7.     SPINNING                                  6
        7.1   Status                              6
        7.2   Incentives Oﬀered                   8
 8.     HANDLOOM                                  9
        8.1   Status                              9
        8.2   Incentives Oﬀered                   9
 9.     POWER LOOM                                12
        9.1   Status                              12
        9.2   Incentives Oﬀered                   13
 10.    PROCESSING                                16
        10.1 Status                               16
        10.2 Incentives Oﬀered                    18
 11.    KNITTING & GARMENTING                     19
        11.1 Status                               19
        11.2 Incentives Oﬀered                    20
12.   TECHNICAL TEXTILES                               21
      12.1 Status                                      21
      12.2 Incentives Oﬀered                           22
13.   TEXTILE PARKS                                    23
      13.1 Status                                      23
      13.2 Incentives Oﬀered                           23
14.   STANDARD INCENTIVES FOR TEXTILE INDUSTRY         24
15.   SPECIAL PACKAGE FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICTS           25
      15.1 Incentives Oﬀered                           25
16.   SKILL DEVELOPMENT                                26
17.   SINGLE WINDOW CLEARANCE                          27
18.   STATE TEXTILE ADVISORY COMMITTEE                 28
19.   SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE                        29
      19.1 Energy / Water / Environmental Compliance   29
      19.2 Technology Acquisition, Upgradation &
           Innovation                                  29
      19.3 Labour Quarters / Workers Hostel            30
      19.4 ESI Facility                                30
20.   LABOUR SECTOR INITIATIVES                        30
21.   GOODS AND SERVICES TAX (GST)                     31
22.   EXPORTS                                          31
      22.1 Incentives Oﬀered                           32
23.   FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT (FDI)                  32
                     TAMILNADU
            NEW INTEGRATED TEXTILE POLICY
                        2019
 1.    PREAMBLE

       The State of Tamilnadu has always been in the forefront of economic growth
in the country. The State has made impressive strides over the years to carve out a
niche for itself in the ields of engineering, automobiles, textiles, leather,
Information Technology, electronic hardware and hi-technology industries.
The Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) stood at 157.85 billion US dollars at
constant prices in 2016-17. The industrial GSDP of Tamilnadu grew at an
impressive rate of 8.79% from the year 2011-12 to 2015-16 at constant prices
higher than the National average of about 7.6%.

       To maintain its position as a progressive State, the Government has taken
proactive steps like the release of Vision 2023 Tamilnadu document, formulation of
Tamilnadu Infrastructure Development Act, Rules and Regulations, along with
Tamilnadu Transparency in Tenders (Public Private Partnership and Procurement)
Act and Rules. The United Nations Report on Probity in Public Procurement has
recognized Tamilnadu as the irst State to have a legislative frame work to deal with
Public Private Partnership procurement.

       The Vision 2023 Tamilnadu document which lays out the road map of
development for the State, aims to achieve a consistent economic growth rate of
14% per annum in a highly inclusive manner and to identify and remove the
bottlenecks in development, prioritize critical infrastructural projects, and work to
propel towards the State of Tamilnadu to the forefront of development.

       Traditionally, Tamilnadu has been in the vanguard of industrialization among
the Indian States and always been a safe haven for the investors owing to a



Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                      1
favourable business climate, excellent infrastructure for trade and investments,
peaceful law and order situation, harmonious industrial relations and healthy
socio-economic reforms.

      Tamilnadu is increasingly becoming the choice of destination for foreign
investors, which provides them with a global reach. Ranked among the top three
Indian States in terms of Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), Tamilnadu is a dream
come true for all those looking for a rich cultural heritage, a highly productive work
force, excellent infrastructural development and cost-eﬀective operations. Each of
these facts is substantiated by an enviable track record.

      The State also compliments with adequate skilled manpower, salubrious
working conditions, a peaceful industrial climate, committed workforce and
extremely competitive wage rates that oﬀer substantial cost savings.

      The Indian textile industry contributes to 7% of Industrial output in value
terms, 2% of India's GDP and to 15% of Country's export earnings with more than
45 million people employed directly. The textile industry is one of the largest
sources of employment generation in the Country. Our State has a strong presence
in textiles and the second largest contributor to the Indian Textiles Industry and
predominantly cotton based. The State marks its overwhelming presence in all the
sub sectors of the industry viz., Spinning, Handloom weaving, Power loom weaving,
Processing, Knitwear, Apparel and Garmenting.

      Some of the textile products from Tamilnadu which are universally
recognised for the excellent craftsmanship and their uniqueness are
Kancheepuram Silk Sarees, Bhavani Carpet (Jamukalam), Madurai Sungadi Sarees,
Coimbatore Kora Sarees, Paramakudi Sarees, Salem Silk Dhoties, Erode and Karur
Home Textiles, Tiruppur Knitwear Garments, etc. Tamilnadu acts as the hub of
textile exports from the country viz., Tiruppur for Knitwear Garments, Coimbatore
for Yarn, Karur for Home Textiles and Chennai for Woven Garment exports.

      The State accounts for 19% of the Nation's Textile output with a robust
network of all the sub-sectors of the Textile industry. State Textile industry is the
largest economic activity after Agriculture.




 2                                             Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
       Tamilnadu is the leading State in the Country in Textile sector and having
major stakeholders with 46% of Spinning capacity, 60% of yarn export, 20% of
Power loom capacity, 12% of Handloom capacity, 70% of Cotton Fabric Knitting
capacity, 20% TUFs investments, direct employment to around 31 lakh people,
more than Rs. 50,000 crore exports and 1/3 of textile business in the country.
 2.    NEED FOR NEW INTEGRATED TEXTILE POLICY
       The erstwhile State Textile Policy 1998 contains broad statements of the
textiles industry. The stated objective of the textile policy of 1998 was to increase in
production of cloth of acceptable quality at reasonable prices to meet the clothing
requirement of growing population. In pursuit of this objective, the generation of
employment and export potential of the industry were also kept in view.




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                         3
      The Vision 2023 Tamilnadu document envisages a 14% annual growth in the
manufacturing sector and an investment of Rs.15 lakh crore in the next 10 years.
In order to attain the growth targets ixed for the respective economic indicators,
the formulation of a new policy for the textile sector has become imperative.
      The Textile Industry is now facing new challenges and looking at new
opportunities due to the changing global environment viz., abolition of quota
system, favourable import terms for countries like Bangladesh, Vietnam, Sri Lanka
etc. Other States in India have also introduced attractive incentive packages for the
textile sector. Therefore, there is a need to formulate dynamic and growth oriented
New Integrated Textile Policy for Tamilnadu.

 3.   OBJECTIVES

The broad objectives of the Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy are :

1)    to sustain numero-uno status of Tamilnadu in textile industry in the country;

2)    to achieve higher and sustainable growth in the entire textile value chain from
       ibre to fashion, with emphasis on balanced regional development and
      holistic approach;




 4                                          Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
3)     to actively encourage
       increasing cotton production
       and productivity within the
       State;

4)     to support the industry to build
       world-class state-of-the-art
       technology in conformity with
       the environmental and social
       standards;

5)     to create a modern, vibrant integrated and world class textile sector including
       handloom, power loom, spinning, processing etc., to produce cost eﬀective
       and high quality yarn, textiles, apparels etc., for supplying the requirement of
       domestic and export sector;

6)     to encourage the industry to give more emphasis on innovation,
       diversi ication, value addition etc.;

7)     to double the share of textiles exports from the State;

8)     to facilitate and promote Technical Textile in the critical areas such as
       production, technology, research & development;

9)     to support the industry with skilled human resources and to create additional
       employment opportunities.

 4.    FOCUS AREAS OF POLICY

The focus areas of interventions in the New Integrated Textile Policy 2019 are:

1)     Sustenance of traditional
       handloom sector to
       preserve the skills and
       artsitry of handloom
       weavers of our State;

2)     Design Development and
       Products Diversi ication;




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                        5
3)     Capacity building and Development of Environment Friendly Processing
       Sector;

4)     Focus on Development of Decentralised Knitting and Garmenting Sector in
       other potential clusters;

5)     Promotion of Technical Textiles;

6)     Ful illing the skill requirement;

7)     Holistic and Harmonious Integrated Textile Developement.

 5.    APPROACH

Keeping the above objectives in mind, this Policy adopts a multi-pronged approach
of ,

1)     providing support for the sustainability and growth of the Handlooms;

2)     providing attractive incentives to encourage investments to ill critical gaps in
       the textile value chain;

3)     providing support to create a world-class infrastructure;

4)     focused area on Technical Textile;

5)     improving the availability and quality of human resources by skill
       upgradation and creation of gainful employment for skilled and semi-skilled
       manpower.

 6.    OPERATIONAL PERIOD OF THE POLICY

       The New Integrated Textile Policy of Tamilnadu will come into force from the
date of announcement of this Policy by the Government of Tamilnadu.

 7.    SPINNING SECTOR

7.1. Status

       The Spinning sector is the cornerstone of Tamilnadu's industrial
development and has been able to keep pace with technological trends. Tamilnadu
enjoys the premier position in the country, both in terms of spindleage and




 6                                           Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
production of yarn. Out of 3376 spinning mills in India, 2013 are located in
Tamilnadu providing employment to 2.80 lakh work force. Of the 53.05 million
spindles in India, 24.10 million spindles are installed in our State. As against the
5659.58 million kgs. of cotton, blended and non-cotton spun yarn produced in India,
2003.20 million kgs. of spun yarn are produced in Tamilnadu during the year
2016-17. Tamilnadu is the number one producer of cotton yarn and leading State in
the Country in export of cotton yarn. Tamilnadu is also one of the major producers
of synthetic yarn in the Country.

       Neverthless, the State Spinning Sector possess 60% of Spinning Mills in the
Country and holds the number one position till date. Still, many of the Spinning Mills
in the State are functioning with obsolete machinery and are not equipped with
State-of-the-art technology. This is evident from the fact that the Spindle capacity of
the State is only 46% and similarly, 35% of yarn is produced as against 60% of
Spinning Mills in our State. The cotton based Spinning Sector of the State is also now
shifting attention to Man Made / Synthetic Filament Yarn.




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                        7
      To retain the premier position of Tamilnadu, the Spinning mills in the State
need to be modernised with the latest technologies, so as to increase their
productivity and production at reasonable cost. The inancial assistance provided
by the Government of India for Technology Upgradation in Spinning sector under
TUFS has been withdrawn, since the launch of Amended Technological Upgradation
Fund Scheme (ATUFS) in January, 2016.

      There are 6 Co-operative Spinning Mills and 7 National Textile Corporation
Mills functioning in the State. The Co-operative Spinning Mills in the State are set up
by the Government of Tamilnadu with the objective of providing un-interrupted
supply of hank yarn at fair prices to handloom weavers in the State and also to
provide sustainable employment to the members of weavers’ families, repatriates
and Adi-dravidars in rural areas. In order to cope up with the latest technological
trends and to increase the productivity by strengthening the capacity,
the Co-operative Spinning Mills have been modernized at the total cost of
Rs.175.24 crore. These Mills are functioning with 1,18,368 spindle capacity and
produce yarn to the value of Rs.320 crore per annum, cater to the yarn requirement
of Weavers Co-operative Societies and for Government Schemes.

7.2. Incentives Oﬀered

      The spinning sector has been able to keep pace with international
technological trends to a fair degree through the Technology Upgradation Fund
Scheme (TUFS). It is commendable to note that the growth of this sector in the State
has reached an appreciable level and henceforth the focus of this policy is to sustain
the units and to be more competitive.

      To help continue this growth, the following incentive will be provided for
spinning sector under this policy:

1)    2% Interest Subvention for investments on Technological Upgradation and
Modernization in existing Spinning Mills with a vintage period of minimum 15 years
on installed machinery.




 8                                          Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
 8.    HANDLOOM SECTOR
8.1.   Status
      Handloom sector, with its long tradition of excellence in craftsmanship,
occupies a place of eminence in preserving heritage of our state and plays an
important role in the economy of the State. Tamilnadu has the pride for its unique
Handloom products like Silk Sarees, Cotton Sarees, Dhoties, Lungies, Towels,
Furnishing Materials, etc.
       There are 21.46 lakh handlooms in India, of which 1.89 lakh handlooms
are in the State. Handloom sector in Tamilnadu, is unique in the sense that majority
of the handloom weavers are in the Cooperative fold. The State handloom sector
provides employment to around 3.19 lakh handloom weavers, which occupies third
position in the country in terms of number of handlooms installed and production.
8.2. Incentives Oﬀered
The following facilities will be extended to handloom sector:
1)     Production of Sarees and Dhoties under Cost Free Distribution of Sarees and
       Dhoties Scheme and production of Uniforms Cloth Varieties under Free
       Supply of Uniforms to School Children, to provide continuous employment to




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                     9
      handloom weavers in co-operative fold and to ful ill the clothing needs of the
      people and pupils of Tamilnadu;
2)    Scheme for Free Supply of Electricity to Handloom Weavers households
      @ 200 units bi-monthly to weavers’ households;
3)    Savings and Security Scheme with State contribution of 8 paise per rupee of
      wage earned by the co-operative handloom weavers, to encourage the
      savings habit;
4)    Family Pension Scheme of Rs.1,000/- per month for the nominee of the
      co-operative handloom weaver, deceased before attaining the age of 60 years;
5)    Old Age Pension Scheme of Rs.1,000/- per month for the co-operative
      handloom weavers on attaining the age of 60 years;
6)    Handloom Support Programme to support innovation and product
      diversi ication in the handloom sector, with an allocation of Rs.40 crore;
7)    Life Insurance Scheme, under Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana
      (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Mahatma
      Gandhi Bunkar Bima Yojana (MGBBY) for the handloom weavers and
      ancillary workers;
8)    To provide credit assistance to the handloom weavers under Weaver MUDRA
      Scheme of the Government of India;
9)    Providing infrastructural facilities for the handloom clusters though Cluster
      Development Programmes under National Handloom Development
      Programme of the Government of India;
10)   Hank Yarn Obligation to ensure availability of hank yarn to handloom
      weavers. Transport Subsidy, Depot Expenses and Hank Yarn Price Subsidy to
      handloom weavers on the purchase of hank yarn and silk yarn under Yarn
      Supply Scheme of the Government of India;
11)   To protect the heritage of handloom varieties, support will be provided to
      register handloom varieties under the Geographical Indication Act, 1999;
12)   Steps will be taken to register traditional products such as Thirubuvanam
      Sarees, Koorainadu Sarees, Kodalikaruppur Sarees and other suitable
      products under the Geographical Indication Act, 1999, to protect the heritage
      and weaving craftsmanship;



10                                         Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
13)    To provide exclusive identity to the handloom products and to make the
       consumers aware of genuine handloom products from fake ones through
       “Handloom Mark”, “Silk Mark” and “India Handloom Brand”;

14)    The Government will focus on Weaver Centric Programmes and schemes
       bene itting both co-operative fold and outside co-operative fold weavers;

15)    Interest Subsidy for Primary Handloom Weavers Co-operative Societies will
       be enhanced from the present 4% to 6% to reduce the interest burden of the
       Handloom Weavers Co-operative Societies;

16)    To promote the sale of handloom cloth, increase of Rebate Subsidy Scheme
       allocation for co-operative sector from Rs.80 crore to Rs.150 crore per year;

17)    Design Development, Products Diversi ication and introduction of new
       products based on other raw materials like Tussar Silk, Linen, Jute, etc., will
       be focused to cater to the needs of the market trends and demands;

18)    To train, retrain and upgrade the weavers' skill, multi-level training in
       weaving, design development and processing including dyeing will be
       provided by dovetailing funds under Skill Upgradation Schemes from
       Tamilnadu Skill Development Mission;

19)    With an objective to develop the silk handloom industry, a Special Rebate for
       Silk will be provided to market handloom silk products of the co-operatives;

20)    The State will encourage setting up of Silk Parks in prominent silk clusters
       viz., Kancheepuram, Salem, Arni and Thirubuvanam;

21)    e-Marketing will be encouraged to expand the marketing opportunities of
       handloom products;

22)    Handloom Census will be undertaken at regular intervals, in coordination
       with the Government of India, so as to formulate a suitable policy and devise
       need based programmes;

23)    Credit support to handloom weavers will be provided for Production and
       Marketing, dovetailing funds from Government of India Schemes and
       NABARD.



Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                       11
 9.   POWER LOOM SECTOR

9.1. Status

      Power loom sector is one of the most signi icant segments of the textile value
chain. Within the weaving sector, increasing dominance of the power loom sector is
being witnessed over the years. Tamilnadu holds the second position in the country
in terms of number of power looms installed. There are about 24.86 lakh registered
power looms in India, of which, Tamilnadu has 5.63 lakh power looms with
10.19 lakh workforce. The State has 212 Power loom Weavers Co-operative
Societies and these Societies are producing cloth required for the Cost Free
Distribution of Sarees and Dhoties Scheme and the Scheme of Free Supply of
Uniforms to School Children. The Ready-made Garments and Home Textiles sector,
which are mainly focusing on international market are highly dependent on the
Power loom sector to meet their fabric requirement. Government desire that
power looms and handlooms co-exist harmoniously and do not compete with each
other's exclusive traditional markets.




12                                         Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
      In Tamilnadu, Power looms are mainly concentrated in the districts of Salem,
Namakkal, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Karur, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Virudhunagar
and Thiruvallur. This sector requires modernization and technological upgradation
to cope up with the cut-throat competition in the domestic and overseas market.
Government will take all steps to encourage the power loom sector to modernize
and ill the gaps in the sector.

9.2. Incentives Oﬀered

      The following assistances are provided by the Government for the
development of the Power loom sector:

1)     Scheme for Free Supply of Electricity to Power loom Weavers @ 750 units
       bi-monthly for about 1.06 lakh Power loom units and Concessional power
       tariﬀ to Power loom sector;

2)     Production of Sarees and Dhoties under Cost Free Distribution of Sarees and
       Dhoties Scheme and production of Uniforms Cloth Varieties under Scheme of
       Free Supply of Uniforms to School Children to provide continuous
       employment to power loom weavers in co-operative fold and to ful ill the
       clothing needs of the people and pupils of Tamilnadu;

3)     10% Credit Linked Capital Investment Subsidy for Power loom sector for
       investments on brand new shuttle-less looms under Amended Technology
       Upgradation Fund Scheme (ATUFS);

4)     To provide a world class infrastructure to integrate production chain, to ful ill
       the business needs, to boost production and export, to overcome the
       bottlenecks in infrastructure and common facilities in brown ield clusters,
       subsidy of 60% of the project cost with maximum ceiling upto Rs.50 crore
       under Modi ied Comprehensive Power loom Cluster Development Scheme
       (MCPCDS) of the Government of India;

5)     Insurance cover to the power loom workers in case of natural death,
       accidental death and partial / permanent disability due to accident, under
       Universal Insurance Coverage Scheme of the Government of India with
       coverage of Rs.1,00,000/- to Rs.4,00,000/-;




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                        13
6)   To provide speci ic skills as per the requirement of Apparel and other
     Segments of Textile Industry, 75% of the cost subject to the ceiling of
     Rs. 10,000/- per person under Integrated Skill Development Scheme (ISDS);

7)   Financial assistance such as life insurance cover, marriage assistance,
     educational assistance, maternity assistance, assistance for purchase of
     spectacles and pensionary bene it to the Power loom weaving workers
     through the Tamilnadu Power loom Weaving Workers' Welfare Board;

8)   The State Government will continue to implement the Central schemes for the
     welfare and development of the power loom sector as a whole;
9)   Implementation of PowerTex India, a Comprehensive Scheme for Power loom
     Sector Development launched by the Government of India with the following
     components:
     a)   In-situ Upgradation of Plain Power looms
          Financial assistance ranging from Rs.20,000/- to Rs.81,000/- is
          provided to economically weaker low-end Power loom units for
          upgrading plain looms to semi-automatic / shuttleless loom.
     b)   Group Workshed Scheme (GWS)
          To facilitate establishment of worksheds for shuttleless looms, subsidy
          of Rs.400/- to Rs.900/- per sq.ft. is provided towards the cost of
          construction.
     c)   Yarn Bank Scheme
          Interest free corpus fund upto Rs.200 lakh per yarn bank is extended to
          Special Purpose Vehicle / Consortium to purchase yarn at wholesale
          rate.
     d)   Common Facility Centre (CFC)
          Subsidy upto Rs.200 lakh per CFC is provided for setting up of design
          centre / studio, testing facilities, training centre, information cum trade
          centre and common raw material / yarn / sales depot, water treatment
          plant, dormitory, worker's residential space, pre-weaving and
          post-weaving facilities etc.



14                                        Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
       e)    Pradhan Mantri Credit Scheme for Power loom Weavers

             Margin Money Subsidy @ 20% of project cost, with a ceiling of Rs.1 lakh
             and Interest Subvention @ 6% per year for working capital loan and
             term loan for a maximum period of 5 years is provided to decentralized
             Power loom units / weavers to meet their credit requirements.

       f)    Solar Energy Scheme for Power looms

             Financial assistance / capital subsidy ranging from Rs.2.23 lakh to
             Rs.8.55 lakh is provided to small Power loom units having upto 8 looms,
             for installation of Solar Photo Voltaic Plant.

       g)    Financial assistance towards Facilitation, IT, Awareness, Market
             Development and Publicity in Power loom sector.

       h)    Tex-Venture Capital Fund

             50% of project cost, with a ceiling of Rs.3 crore is invested by SIDBI
             Venture Capital Fund Ltd., (SVCL) as equity shares and / or instruments
             convertible into equity in innovative private Power loom MSME
             companies.

10)    The Government of Tamilnadu will provide 10% additional Capital Subsidy,
       subject to Rs.4 lakh per loom for purchase of brand new shuttleless looms
       under Amended Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme (ATUFS);

11)    The Government of India is providing 10% Capital Subsidy for promoting
       brand new preparatory machines. The State Government will provide
       additional 10% Capital Subsidy subject to a ceiling of Rs.30 lakh per unit
       (2 Units of Warping Machines & 1 Unit of Sizing Machine);

12)    The Government of India is providing 50% Capital Subsidy for in-situ
       upgradation of Plain looms to Semi Automatic Shuttle Looms, Semi
       Automatic Shuttle Looms to Shuttleless Rapier Looms, Plain Looms to
       Shuttleless Rapier Looms under PowerTex India. The State Government will
       also provide 10% additional capital subsidy under this scheme;




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                     15
13)   To ful ill the business needs and integrate the production and boost the
      export by creating world class infrastructure, 9% of project cost, with a
      maximum ceiling of Rs.9 crore will be provided as State grant similar to the
      grants provided under Scheme for Integrated Textile Parks (SITP) under
      Modi ied Comprehensive Power loom Cluster Development Scheme
      (MCPCDS);

14)   One Time Assistance of 25% of the project cost, with a ceiling of Rs.10 crore
      for setting up of Trade Facilitation Centre on PPP model will be provided,
      if encumbrance free land is available with the industry;

15)   Power loom Census will be undertaken at regular intervals, in coordination
      with the Government of India, so as to formulate a suitable policy and devise
      need based programmes;

 10. PROCESSING SECTOR

10.1. Status

      The processing of yarn and fabrics at pre-loom as well as post-loom stages is
signi icantly contributing to the essential customization of the product and also
aesthetic value addition. Processing includes dyeing, printing and cloth preparation
prior to manufacturing of clothing. The state oﬀers a complete ecosystem of the
textile industry and the dyeing units in compliance with Zero Liquid Discharge of
ef luents to comply with the environmental standards prescribed by the Pollution
Control Board by applying modern technology. There are 2614 Hand Processing
Units (25% of total units in India) and 985 Power Processing units in Tamilnadu




16                                         Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
which is 40% of total units in country. Processing sector is perhaps the weakest link
in the entire textile value chain with huge requirement of water and pose a threat to
environment.

      The State processing sector is mainly focusing on yarn dyeing and bleaching.
Whereas, the installed capacity in Fabric Dyeing and Wider Width Fabric Printing
like Rotary Printing System is inadequate to cater to the requirements of the State.
Thereby, the grey fabrics produced in and around Erode cluster are exported to
other printing clusters like Jaipur in Rajasthan, Ujjaini in Madhaya Pradesh, Meerut
in Uttar Pradesh, Ahmedabad and Surat for Printing and are marketed in our State.
Our State is losing its potential in Fabric Printing and also involves wastage of time
on transportation, eﬀort and add on cost on printing charges. A thrust should be
given to encourage capacity building in the Fabric Printing segment of processing
sector.

      The entire processing sector needs to be supported and upgraded for
inclusive growth and to facilitate processing at an internationally acceptable level,
by taking into account the environmental issues. Accordingly, the Government of
Tamilnadu have been taking proactive steps to ensure environmental protection
and the only State ensuring cent percent Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) of Trade
ef luents from the dyeing and processing units.

      The Government will focus on setting up of CETPs with ZLD facility in Textile
Clusters both in the form of setting up of Green Field Textile Processing Parks with
CETP and also setting up CETPs alone by interlinking existing dyeing units, to arrest
pollution and to ensure environmental protection.




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                       17
10.2. Incentives Oﬀered

1)   10% Credit Linked Capital Investment Subsidy for Processing sector under
     the Amended Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme (ATUFS);

2)   Financial assistance of 50% of the project cost, subject to a maximum ceiling
     of Rs.75.00 crore per project by the Government of India for establishment of
     Processing Parks under Integrated Processing Development Scheme (IPDS).
     In addition, State Government inancial assistance upto 25% of project cost,
     subject to a maximum ceiling of Rs.37.50 crore per project;

3)   The State Government will continue to support the Central schemes for the
     development of processing sector;

4)   Under Integrated Processing Development Scheme (IPDS) for the
     establishment of Processing Parks, Interest subvention of 5% will be
     provided for the credit availed towards 25% contribution of SPV;

5)   Financial assistance in the form of 10% Capital Subsidy, with a ceiling of
     Rs.20 lakh per machine will be provided on purchase of Wider Width Fabric
     Printing Machines;

6)   To create necessary infrastructural support for promoting Erode as Textile
     Processing Printing Centre, inancial assistance will be provided;

7)   Assistance of 15% Capital Subsidy will be provided for setting up of Ef luent
     Treatment Plants (ETPs) / Hazardous Waste Treatment Storage and
     Disposable Facility (HWTSDF) with Zero Liquid Discharge, subject to a
     maximum subsidy of Rs.5 crore;

8)   Support will be provided for Research and Development on PPP mode for
     ef icient ef luent management and for minimizing operational cost of CETPs
     and IETPs;

9)   Processing Cluster will be promoted in Ramanathapuram district with
      inancial assistance under the IPDS scheme.




18                                        Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
 11. KNITTING, APPAREL AND GARMENTING SECTOR

11.1. Status

       The Knitting, Apparel and Garmenting sector is the inal stage of the textile
value chain and maximum value-addition takes place at this stage. This industry has
made tremendous stride in the State. This is an export intensive sector, besides,
there is also signi icant growth in organized retailing in the domestic market.
Employment generation especially for the women is the special characteristic
feature of this sector, based on low and medium ticket investment.

       Tamilnadu is home to the largest knitting industry and has the biggest
knitting cluster in India – Tiruppur, which is the major hub of knitwear exports in
India, contributing 45% of total knitwear exports, of which, more than 90% are
cotton based garments. Tiruppur cluster generates gainful employment to 6 lakh
persons directly with large number of rural hands. It houses more than 6000 units
which predominantly consists of Knitting and Garmenting. Besides domestic
turnover of Rs.10,000 crore per annum, Tiruppur currently undertakes exports of
over Rs.25,000 crore. Similarly, Chennai is a major Cluster for Ready-made
Garments with substantial volume of exports.




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                    19
11.2. Incentives Oﬀered
      Following assistances are oﬀered to Knitting, Apparel and Garmenting sector
by the Government:
1)   40% of the Project Cost, limiting to Rs.40 crore for setting up of Textile Parks.
     In order to provide a illip to the Apparel Manufacturing units and thereby
     generate additional employment, particularly for women, an additional grant
     upto Rs.10 crore per Park by the Government of India for setting up of
     additional infrastructure including factory buildings for apparel
     manufacturing units, common facilities like crè ches, working women hostel,
     canteen etc., required for apparel and ancillary units;
2)   15% Credit Linked Capital Investment Subsidy (CIS) for investments in
     Garmenting sector under Amended Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme
     (ATUFS) by the Government of India;
3)   Considering the incomparable employment potential and exports in the
     garmenting sector, the Government of India has launched a slew of measures
     under the Scheme for Production and Employment Linked Support for
     Garmenting Units (SPELSGU):
     a)    In addition to the regular 15% Capital Investment Subsidy (CIS)
           provided for garmenting units under ATUFS, additional 10% CIS to
           Garmenting units for benchmarked eligible machinery;




20                                         Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
       b)    Reduction in number of working days from 240 to 150 under section
             80JJAA of Income Tax Act;
       c)    Government of India will bear the entire 12% of Employee Provident
             Fund Scheme contribution of employer;
       d)    Flexibility in Labour Laws to increase productivity;
4)     For setting up of New Training Centres for Apparel and Textiles linked with
       ITIs, 25% Subsidy for machinery purchased, subject to a maximum ceiling of
       Rs.20 lakh per Centre will be given through Tamilnadu Skill Development
       Agency;
5)     Setting up of Training-cum-Production Centres at potential clusters on the
       concept of Plug and Play will be encouraged by providing assistance under
       various schemes;
6)     Prominent Knitwear Associations and Training Institutes will be roped in to
       impart training in Knitwear and Garmenting sector.
 12. TECHNICAL TEXTILES
12.1. Status
       Technical Textiles are textile
materials and products used for
technical operations with functional
properties. Based on the product
speci ications and end-use
applications, the Technical Textile is
grouped under 12 segments, viz.,
Agrotech, Meditech, Buildtech, Mobiltech, Clothtech, Oekotech, Geotech, Packtech,
Hometech, Protech, Indutech and Sporttech. There is a scope for huge market for the
Technical Textile. Though India is the second largest textile economy in the world
after China, its consolidation in the global Technical Textile industry is insigni icant.
It is strongly felt that due to the vast textile base, the State has the potential to
emerge as a signi icant player in the global Technical Textile market. South India
Textile Research Association (SITRA), Coimbatore and PSG College of Technology,
Coimbatore have been designated as Centre of Excellence (CoE) for Meditech and
Indutech, respectively.



Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                         21
12.2. Incentives Oﬀered

      The Government have categorized the Technical Textiles Sector as a focus
area of intervention and oﬀering various assistances as follows:

1)    Credit Linked Capital Investment Subsidy @ 15% for investments on eligible
      machinery in Technical Textiles under ATUFS;

2)    Concessional Custom Duty for speci ic Technical Textile Machinery – Major
      machinery required for Technical Textiles has been placed in the
      concessional custom duty list of 5% of list 46, Noti ication No.21/2002-CUS
      of Customs Tariﬀ;

3)    Focus Product Scheme (FPS) for Technical Textiles – To incentivize export of
      products that have high export intensity or employment potential in order to
      oﬀset infrastructure inef iciencies and other associated costs, exports of
      noti ied products to all countries (including SEZ units) shall be entitled for
      Duty Credit Scrip equivalent to 2% of FOB value of exports (in free foreign
      exchange). As per DGFT's Policy Circular No. 42 (RE-2010)/2009-14 dated
      21 October 2011, there are 33 Technical Textile products that are allowed
      for FPS bene its under this scheme;

4)    On par with the thrust given by the Government of India and to take advantage
      of the untapped potential of the sector, the State Government would continue
      to support the Technical Textile sector;

5)    9% of Project Cost, subject to a maximum ceiling of Rs.9 crore will be provided
      as State Government grants for setting up of Technical Textile Parks under
      Scheme for Integrated Textile Parks (SITP);

6)    6% Interest subsidy for Technical Textile projects will be provided in addition
      to any other incentives available from the Government of India;

7)    Overseas study will be conducted to identify potential Technical Textile
      markets and products;

8)    100% Stamp Duty Exemption will be given for Technical Textile projects.




22                                          Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
 13. TEXTILE PARKS

13.1. Status

       In order to provide the industry with the world-class infrastructural facilities
to set up their textile units in India, the Government of India is implementing the
Scheme for Integrated Textile Parks (SITP). This scheme would facilitate setting up
of new textile parks of international standards at potential growth centres on PPP
mode.

       Eight Textile Parks have been setup in the State under SITP at the total project
cost of Rs.745.25 crore. In other words, the Government of India is providing
Rs.301.13 crore as Central assistance and the Government of Tamilnadu is
providing Rs.58.73 crore as State assistance. These Parks attract investments of
about Rs.2700 crore and annual business turnover of Rs.5311 crore per annum, by
generating direct and indirect employment to about 67,300 persons.

13.2. Incentives Oﬀered

Following assistances will be provided for setting up of Textile Parks:

1)     Financial assistance upto 40% of the total project cost, subject to a ceiling of
        Rs.40 crore by the Government of India under SITP;

2)     9% of Project Cost as State Subsidy for Textile Parks established under SITP,
        subject to a maximum ceiling of Rs.9 crore;

3)     To facilitate the entrepreneurs to establish Mini Textile Parks in the State in a
        minimum extent of 2 acres of land and 3 units, subsidy of 50% of Project Cost,
        subject to a maximum ceiling of Rs.2.50 crore on the cost of infrastructure and
        common facilities will be provided;

4)     50% Stamp Duty exemption will be given for land acquired for Textile Parks;

5)     The State Government will continue to set up Textile Parks and provide
        necessary inancial assistance wherever necessary.




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                         23
 14. STANDARD INCENTIVES FOR TEXTILE INDUSTRY
      The Government of Tamilnadu has announced the New Industrial Policy of
the State in February, 2014.
      The Standard Incentives being oﬀered to new or expansion manufacturing
units under Industrial Policy are:
1)    Back-ended Capital Subsidy ranging from Rs.0.30 crore to Rs.2.25 crore;

2)    Electricity Tax exemption for 2 years to 5 years on power purchased from
      TANGEDCO or generated or consumed from Captive sources;

3)    50% exemption from Stamp Duty on lease or sale of land meant for industrial
      use;

4)    Environmental Protection Infrastructure Subsidy at the rate of 25% of capital
      cost, with a ceiling of Rs.30 lakh.

Employment Based Incentives:

1)    With a view to encourage employment intensive industries to set up their
      projects in Tamilnadu, a 'Employment-based package of incentive scheme’
      is being implemented;

2)    Under this scheme, Companies setting up their projects in Chennai,
      Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts and employing more than
      1500 persons directly and in respect of other districts employing
      750 persons directly will be covered under this package;

3)    Qualifying projects are given Soft Loan against the Net Output VAT paid by the
      project to the Government for the irst ive years from the commencement of
      commercial production;

4)    A ceiling on cumulative availment of Soft Loan will be ixed as equal to the
      total wages paid by the project to the employees on its roll during the irst
      5 years period from the date of commercial production;

5)    The Soft Loan carries a nominal interest of 0.1% per annum and it will be
      repayable after 7 years. Thus, Soft Loan given during the irst year shall be




24                                          Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
       repaid in the 8 year along with interest and so on. This incentive is eligible
       only if the sale is for ultimate use in Tamilnadu;

6)     In case, a project quali ies for any Investment Based Package of Incentives
       also, as per this policy, the choice will be left to the investing company to
       choose either the Investment Based Package or Employment Based Package.
       This would be a one-time choice and should be exercised in the beginning
       itself;

7)     The Government in deserving cases, for valid reasons, may extend the
       investment period;

8)     In the case of Investment Promotion Soft Loan, the cap will be the one ixed for
       the respective categories / class. In the case of Investment Promotion subsidy,
       the cap will be half of the one ixed for the respective category / class. The
       project / company may exercise a one-time option for availing either
       Investment Promotion Soft Loan or subsidy before the commencement of the
       commercial production.

      Further, the Micro, Small and Medium Industries Policy 2008 of Tamilnadu
provide Special Capital Subsidy at the rate of 15% on eligible plant and machinery,
subject to a maximum of Rs.30 lakh to the Ready-made Garments sector.

      The eligible textile units can also avail the incentives oﬀered under the
Tamilnadu Industrial Policy and Micro, Small and Medium Industries Policy in force
from time to time, without any duplication of inancial assistance.

 15. SPECIAL PACKAGE FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICTS

      In order to achieve balanced regional development with a renewed emphasis
on the Southern Districts or Backward Districts of the State, Textile Industries set up
in Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram,
Sivagangai, Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur
Districts will be eligible for a special package as detailed below:

15.1 Incentives Oﬀered

1)     5% Additional Capital Subsidy for new / expansion of textile units set up in
       southern districts;




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                        25
2)   100% Stamp Duty Exemption for projects developed in the southern districts
     with a minimum investment of Rs.5 crore on machinery;

3)   SIPCOT will acquire and allot lands for starting new industries in southern
     districts where lands in SIPCOT Parks are not available. In order to achieve
     the goal, the minimum area required by the investing company shall be
     atleast 25 acres and the investment should be more than Rs.50 crore.
     The lands required by the company shall be barren, non-irrigated and dry
     land to the extent possible. Land requirement with more than 10% wet lands
     will not be entertained;

4)   Uninterrupted power supply will be given to the projects set up in the
     southern districts if they are covered by MoU or Government Order
     (non-MoU).

 16. SKILL DEVELOPMENT

     Apart from providing assistance for creation of infrastructural facilities and
     setting up of textile units, making available skilled manpower to the industry
     and to upgrade the skill sets of the existing workforce by way of training,
     retraining and upgrading are also
     equally important for the holistic
     development of the industry.
     Besides, bridging the gap between
     the skill set requirements and the
     un-skilled / semi-skilled
     workforce, the Government will
     provide better institutional and
     industrial linkages to all the
     sectors of the textile industry.

1)   Thrust will be given for creating a skilled and balanced workforce to enable
     women to enhance their employability;

2)   In view of the perspective to make good the loss due to human errors in the
     Knitwear Industry, assistance will be provided to impart Upskilling Training
     to the existing un-skilled / semi-skilled labour force;




26                                        Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
3)     The Tamilnadu Skill Development Mission implemented through the
       Tamilnadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC), for providing skill
       training through diﬀerent departments;

4)     TNSDC has identi ied Textiles as one of the priority sectors, wherein skill
       training programmes cater to the immediate skill requirements of the
       industries and also pave the way for the entry of large unemployed youth into
       the organised sector;

5)     Skill development training in the textile industry will be provided to
       unemployed and semi-skilled persons through TNSDC and Integrated Skill
       Development Scheme of the Ministry of Textiles, Government of India;

6)     The Government will take the lead in partnering with the industry in
       developing a curriculum for the Industrial Training Institutes to make their
       graduates industry-ready;

7)     Technical Institutes and Polytechnics will be incentivised to align themselves
       with the industry needs and organise skill development programmes jointly
       to improve the employability of their students.

 17. SINGLE WINDOW CLEARANCE

1)     To avoid procedural delays in getting statutory clearances from various
       authorities, Single Window Clearance will be provided to accord in-principle
       approval for pre-project clearance at the State Government level;

2)     The Government of Tamilnadu have enacted the Tamilnadu Business
       Facilitation Act and Rules, 2017 and noti ied the Tamilnadu Industrial
       Guidance and Export Promotion Bureau as the State Nodal Agency at State
       level and District Industry Centre (DICs) at District level Agency;

3)     The services covered under Single Window Clearance are according
       Pre-Establishment clearances, Pre-Operation clearances which are required
       prior to establishment of an Enterprise, Renewals of Clearances, Incentives
       for eligible Enterprises and other required clearances for an enterprise;



Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                       27
4)   In order to avail the services through Single Window Portal, the enterprises
     shall pay the fees payable to the individual Competent Authorities in respect
     of their clearances, as stipulated in their respective Acts / Rules / Forms /
     Noti ications. And also the processing fee per application payable to the
     Nodal Agency under the Act;

5)   The fees payable to the State Nodal Agency, namely, the Tamilnadu Industrial
     Guidance and Export Promotion Bureau, as noti ied by the Government of
     Tamilnadu and in force, ranges from Rs.3 lakh to Rs.20 lakh based on the
     investment limits of projects ranging from Rs.10 crore to Rs.1000 crore;

6)   The Government of Tamilnadu have also constituted the following
     Committees under the Tamilnadu Business Facilitation Ordinance, 2017:

     -     State Single Window Committee (SSWC) with the Executive Vice
           Chairperson, Guidance Bureau as the Chairman;

     -     State Single Window Monitoring Committee (SSWMC) with the Chief
           Secretary to Government as the Chairman;

7)   Investment Promotion and Monitoring Board with the Hon'ble Chief Minister
     as the Chairman has also been constituted;

8)   The Textile Sector shall avail the Single Window Services through the State
     Level / District Level Business Facilitation Centres for textile projects.

 18. STATE TEXTILE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

1)   To facilitate the Textile Industry in Tamilnadu to sustain and further
     strengthen its prominent position in the textile sector, a State Textile Advisory
     Committee headed by the Hon'ble Minister for Handlooms and Textiles with
     representatives from all the sub sectors of the textile value chain i.e., Weaving
     (Handloom & Power loom), Spinning, Processing, Knitting, Garmenting,
     Textile Machinery Manufacturing, Government Institutions etc., as members
     has been constituted;

2)   A sub-committee under the Chairmanship of the Director of Handlooms and
     Textiles has been constituted to assist the State Textile Advisory Committee;



28                                          Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
3)     The State Textile Advisory Committee, as an Advisory Body for the textile
       industry will meet once in every 3 months or whenever necessary and
       apprise the issues of the State Textiles Industry and enable holistic growth
       and development.

 19. SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE

19.1. Energy / Water / Environmental Compliance

1)     The scheme will be known as One Time Assistance for Energy, Water
       conservation and Environmental compliance with the existing Textile units in
       operation for more than three years;

2)     Assistance upto 50%, subject to a maximum ceiling of Rs.50,000/- for Energy
       Audit / Water Audit / Environmental Compliance, applicable on case to case
       basis will be provided;

3)     Assistance upto 20% of cost of equipment required for energy and water
       conservation, subject to a maximum of Rs.10 lakh, applicable on case to case
       basis will be given;

19.2. Assistance For Technology Acquisition, Upgradation & Innovation

1)     Realizing that technology is a key element contributing to productivity,
       quality, competitiveness and market acceptability of products and that




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                    29
      technology and business incubators have emerged as useful instruments for
      innovation, the Government will encourage development of “Centres of
      Excellence and Innovation,” in collaboration with academic institutions of
      excellence, industry and the Government of India;

2)    The scheme will be known as Assistance to Enterprises for Technology
      Acquisition, Upgradation and Innovation;

3)    The enterprises acquiring the technology will be provided inancial
      assistance of upto 25% of the investment for technology acquisition /
      collaboration, subject to a maximum ceiling of Rs.25 lakh per process /
      product once during the currency of the policy period.

      Eligible Activities

      a)    The enterprises acquiring new technology for specialized application
            will be eligible under the scheme;

      b)    The acquisition of technology and collaboration can be in any form,
            including purchase of drawing and design and technology
            development through engaging experts / R&D institution and / or
            technical consultancy irm and necessary Testing and Certi ication.

19.3. Labour Quarters / Workers Hostel

      Assistance of 50% of the project cost for construction of Labour Quarters /
Workers Hostel will be provided, if encumbrance free land is mobilized by the
Cluster / Textile Park SPVs.

19.4. ESI Facility

      Financial assistance will be provided for creating ESI facilities in Knitwear
Clusters and other Textile Clusters.

 20. LABOUR SECTOR INITIATIVES

     Department will endeavour to liaise with Labour Department in resolving
labour issues of textile value chain within the framework of existing law.




30                                        Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
 21. GOODS AND SERVICES TAX (GST)

1)     The Government of India have
       introduced the Goods and Services
       Tax (GST) as “One Nation One Tax”
       with eﬀect from 01.07.2017;

2)     T h e S t a t e Te x t i l e A d v i s o r y
       Committee and the Government of                                   NET
                                                                            AX
                                                                     ONO
       Tamilnadu will take continuous                            ATI
                                                               AX
                                                             ET
                                                           ON
       eﬀort to get the best out of GST for
       the Textile Industry.

 22. EXPORTS

       Tamilnadu is a major exporter of a variety of manufactured goods like
       automobiles, auto components, Engineering goods, Textiles and Garments,
       Leather products, Electronic Hardware, Chemicals, etc., apart from software
       and Support services. Tamilnadu's exports stood at a value of 16.2 billion
       US dollars during 2016-2017, of which, more than Rs.50,000 crore is
       contributed by Textile Industry. Tamilnadu is the home to the knitting
       industry and has the biggest knitting cluster in India – Tiruppur, which
       exports more than Rs.25,000 crore of knitwear and garments.




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                     31
22.1. Incentives Oﬀered

1)    A detailed study on new and emerging products will be conducted on PPP
      model on 75:25 funding pattern, with the support of organisations like FIEO,
      which can be produced and exported from Tamilnadu with competitive
      pricing;

2)    Export products and its markets will be identi ied district-wise, product-wise
      encouragements / incentives, adequate infrastructure will be devised to see
      these potential districts are recognized for excelling atleast in one product
      group;

3)    Product speci ic Industrial Clusters will be promoted and necessary support
      will be provided by the State Government to promote them as ‘Export Clusters’;

4)    Encourage exporters to export branded products through promoting “Brand
      Tamilnadu”;

5)    Selected towns producing goods of Rs.200 crore or more will be noti ied as
      “Towns of Exports Excellence” based on potential for growth in exports;

6)    International Fair on Fibre to Fashion of Textile Industry will be conducted at
      CODISSIA, Coimbatore once in two years, with a inancial assistance of
      Rs.2.00 crore;

7)    An Export promotion Fund will be created to improve export related
      infrastructure and for programmes and schemes to promote exports in
      textile towns / clusters of export excellence;

8)    Sector speci ic support will be provided to augment exports to emerging and
      potential sector.

 23. FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENTS (FDI)

      With the most liberal and transparent policies in FDI amongst emerging
countries, India is a promising destination for FDI in the Textile Industry. With an
aim to attract huge FDI in textile sector, the Government of India is oﬀering the
following assistances:

1)    Foreign Direct Investment Policy in Textiles – 100% FDI is permitted through



32                                         Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
       automatic route without any
       limit on the extent of foreign
       ownership for in-bound
       investments in the textile
       sector. Thus, there is no
       restriction on any amount of
       FDI, with or without local
       partners. Government
       incentives are equally
       applicable to FDI units;

2)     With the most liberal and transparent policies in FDI amongst emerging
       countries, India is a promising destination for FDI in the textile sector. FDI in
       sectors to the extent permitted under automatic route does not require any
       prior approval either by the Government of India or Reserve Bank of India
       (RBI). Investors are required only to notify the RBI Regional Of ice within 30
       days of receipt of inward remittance;

3)     The Ministry of Textiles, Government of India has set up FDI Cell to attract
       FDI in the textile sector in the country. The FDI cell operates with the
       following objectives:

       a)    To provide assistance and advisory support (including liaison with
             other organizations and State Governments);

       b)    Assist foreign companies in inding out joint venture partners;

       c)    To sort out operational problems;

       d)    Maintenance and monitoring of data pertaining to domestic textile
             production and foreign investment.




Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019                                        33
    Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles & Khadi Department
               GOVERNMENT OF TAMILNADU
             Secretariat, Fort St. George, Chennai – 600 009.
Tel. : +91 44 25671623 Fax: +91 44 25672261 E-mail : htksec@tn.gov.in



                                   Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
Tamilnadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019
