                                   CONTENTS

S.No                         Details                    Page No.

1.     PREAMBLE                                            1

       1.1 Textiles And Apparel (T&A) Sector               2

2.     VISION OF THE NEW INTEGRATED TEXTILE                5
       POLICY

       2.1 Need for the Policy                             5

       2.2 Vision of the Policy                            6

       2.3 Expected Outcome of the Policy                  7

3.     TAMIL NADU NEW INTEGRATED TEXTILE                   8
       POLICY 2025-26

       3.1 Fiscal Support                                  8

       3.2 Special Focus on Technical Textiles             9

       3.3 Institutional Support                           9

4.     FISCAL SUPPORT                                     10

       4.1 Spinning Sector                                10

       4.2 Handloom Sector                                11

       4.3 Powerloom Sector                               15

       4.4 Processing Sector                              18

       4.5 Cut and Sew Sector                             19

       4.6.Non-Conventional        Fibre    /    Yarn     20
       Manufacturing

Government of Tamil Nadu
       4.7 Resource Efficiency Audits                    21

       4.8 Compliance and Standard Certifications        22

       4.9 Market Development and Branding               23

       4.10 Additional Special Subsidy                   24

5.     SPECIAL FOCUS ON TECHNICAL TEXTILES               24
       SECTOR

       5.1 Tamil Nadu Technical Textile Mission (T3M)    25

       5.2 Research & Development Support                26

       5.3 Fiscal Support under Other Schemes and        27
       Policies

6.     INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                             31

       6.1 Textile Trade Facilitation Centre (TTFC)      32

       6.2 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)            32

       6.3 Exporters Excellence Awards                   33

       6.4 Skill Development                             33

       6.5 Ease Of Doing Business                        34

       6.6 Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) In Textiles   34

       ANNEXURE – I: TERMS & DEFINITIONS                 36

       ANNEXURE – II: Special Scheme for                 40
       Technical Textiles, MMF Yarn from Recycled
       Products,   MMF      Fabric   &    Apparel
       Manufacturing under TNIP 2021.




Government of Tamil Nadu
                                                     TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




PREAMBLE
       Tamil Nadu has emerged as the nation's economic powerhouse due to its
thriving and diverse industrial base. Today, the state is amongst the industry
leaders in a number of areas, including Information Technology (IT) &
Information Technology Enabled Services (ITES), automotive, chemicals,
leather goods, textiles, and engineering products. With growth rate of 8.13%,
the state's Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) reached USD 291 billion in the
Financial Year 2022-231. The state's economy, which makes up 9.03% of the
country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP)1, is the second largest in India.

       The State contributes significantly to the nation's economy through
export earnings. In the Financial Year 2022-23, it exported goods
(Manufacturing exports) valued at almost USD 37 billion. The main exported
goods were automobiles, auto components and parts, electric machinery and
equipment, textiles and Ready-Made Garments (RMG). According to the Export
Preparedness Index (EPI) 2020 study, Tamil Nadu was ranked third in terms of
policy, business ecosystem, export ecosystem, and volume of exports.

       Tamil Nadu's robust economic ecosystem, abundant talent pool, socio-
political stability, proactive administration, innovative policy initiatives, and
systematic reforms have made it a sought-after investment destination for
entrepreneurs. With four main ports, several smaller ports, six major airports,
and extensive road and rail access, Tamil Nadu boasts an excellent industrial
infrastructure. Major international transshipment centres like Colombo,
Singapore, and Malaysia are easily accessible from it as well. To facilitate



1 Grant Thornton - Tamil Nadu: Towards a trillion dollar economy by 2030


Government of Tamil Nadu                                                                        1
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




simple access to rapidly expanding markets, the State has also built export
processing zones, industrial parks, and Special Economic Zones.

1.1 TEXTILES AND APPAREL (T&A) SECTOR

 1.1.1 India’s Textile Industry

       Indian Textiles & Apparel (T&A) industry’s heritage is over 5,000 years
and it plays a key role in ensuring the livelihood to over 105 million people
particularly rural women, unemployed youth and marginalized farmers. The
current business size of Indian T&A is around USD 162 billion comprising of
USD 127 billion domestic business size and USD 35 billion export business size.
India ranks fifth in the world in textile and apparel commodity exports. Indian
T&A industry is predominantly cotton based due to the availability of
domestically grown cotton. The cotton to Man-Made Fibre (MMF) consumption
ratio of India is around 60:40 which is opposite to global trend.2

       The Ministry of Textiles, Government of India has set a vision of reaching
USD 350 billion in textile business by 2030 consisting of USD 250 billion
domestic business and USD 100 billion export business. This target envisages
the industry to grow at a CAGR of more than 10% to reach the same.

       Sustainability and traceability have become an integral part of any
manufacturing industry, including T&A. Leading global brands in developed
economies are insisting on strict compliance to sustainability metrics. Towards
this, the Government of India has set various targets to reduce emissions,
integrate renewable energy, etc.




2 ITC Trade Map


Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            2
                                        TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




 1.1.2 Tamil Nadu Handlooms, Textiles & Apparel Industry

      The Textile industry in Tamil Nadu is a cornerstone of the state's
economy and has a rich heritage. The handloom industry in Tamil Nadu
occupies a place of eminence in preserving the States’ heritage and plays an
important role in the economy of the State and also provides employment to
the rural masses next only to agriculture. Tamil Nadu is a leading handloom
and textile manufacturing hub, contributing significantly to the country's
textile production and exports. The state is known for its presence in entire
textile value chain, including spinning, handloom weaving, powerloom
weaving, processing, knitwear, apparel, garments, and home textiles. Major
textile clusters in Tamil Nadu include Tirupur, Coimbatore, Karur, Erode,
Salem, Chennai and Madurai regions.

      Tamil Nadu contributes the following
         • 1/3rd of Country’s textile business.
         • 70% of Country’s cotton knitted garment capacity.
         • 60% of Country’s yarn export.
         • 43% of Country’s spindle capacity.
         • 20% of Country’s Home Textile exports.
         • 19% of Country’s Powerloom capacity.
         • 8% of Country’s handloom capacity.

      The sector provides employment to around 6 million people directly and
indirectly in the State.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                           3
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




      The Textile exports of the State are around USD 8.2 billion, during the
Financial Year 2024-2025 and the state ranks first in the country. The Textile
sector is envisioned to play a key role in achieving the Hon’ble Chief Minister of
Tamil Nadu’s vision of “One Trillion dollar economy by 2030”. Hence,
focused policy interventions are required to increase its business size.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            4
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




2. VISION OF THE NEW INTEGRATED TEXTILE POLICY

2.1 NEED FOR THE POLICY
      The erstwhile Tamil Nadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2019 contains
broad statements and sector wise interventions for the Textile Industry.
However, a lot has changed since the release of that policy. The unprecedented
3-year period following the release of the policy highlighted several major risk
issues faced by the state’s T&A industry as well as latent market opportunities
that can be leveraged.

      Also, the 2019 Textile Policy encompassed the financial support
provided by the State Government in addition to the financial incentives
offered by the Ministry of Textiles, Government of India. With the phasing out
of earlier schemes such as SITP, IPDS, PowerTex, ATUF etc., and the
introduction of new initiatives like PLI, NTTM etc., by the Ministry of Textiles,
Government of India, there is a timely need to consider appropriate policy
interventions to address the evolving requirements of the sector. Hence, the
Government of Tamil Nadu has taken cognizance of the challenges faced by the
Industry and the new opportunities present and decided to bring out a New
Integrated Textile Policy.

      The New Textile Policy aims to respond to the needs of the Textile
industry in the changing economic scenario & technology and offer direction &
support for the future growth of the industry.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            5
                                          TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




2.2 VISION OF THE POLICY
      To position Tamil Nadu as a global textile sourcing hub, fostering
innovation, sustainability, and inclusive growth, while preserving its rich
textile heritage, and creating a strong ecosystem that empowers textile
industries, generates employment, and contributes to the vision of the Hon’ble
Chief Minister to make Tamil Nadu a “One trillion-dollar economy” by 2030.

 2.2.1 Short-Term Goals (Next 5 Years)

     a. Ensuring modernisation of the existing manufacturing capacity in all
         sectors of textile industry.
     b. Enabling the industry to benefit most out of various skill development
         initiatives of the Government.
     c. To facilitate the availability of raw materials in Tamil Nadu.
     d. To facilitate and encourage the exporters to adopt the ESG Standards
         and other compliances.

 2.2.2 Medium-Term Goals (Next 10 Years)

     a. Creating a “Brand Tamil Nadu” tag and taking necessary steps to get
         global recognition.
     b. Developing dedicated Textile clusters to support various segments of
         Textile Value Chain.

 2.2.3 Long-Term Goal (Next 15 Years)

     a. Making Tamil Nadu the global hub for manufacturing value-added
         textile products by encouraging backward and forward integrations
         and establishing hub and spoke model facilities.



Government of Tamil Nadu                                                             6
                                              TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




2.3 EXPECTED OUTCOME OF THE POLICY

   i.   Around 19 lakhs spindles and 8 lakhs rotors are envisaged to be
        modernised over a period of 5 years.
  ii.   At least 1,000 low-speed ordinary Rapier looms equipped with
        Electronic Jacquard or Dobby mechanism are projected to be installed
        over a 5 year period.
 iii.   3000 plain powerlooms are envisaged to be upgraded as shuttleless
        looms with selvedge mechanism looms over a period of 5 years.
 iv.    It is anticipated that ten new dyeing, printing, and finishing units, each
        equipped with an Integrated Effluent Treatment Plant (IETP), will be
        established over a period of 5 years.
  v.    50 existing processing units with IETPs are projected to be modernised
        over a period of 5 years.
 vi.    It is projected that 100 brand-new, fully computerized cutting machines
        equipped with CAD/CAM software will be installed over a period of 5
        years.
vii.    It is envisaged that 10 manufacturing units specialising in non-
        conventional fibres and yarns will be established over a period of 5
        years.
viii.   Comprehensive End-to-End Technical Support will be provided to
        establish/ diversify around 24 Brand-new/ Existing Technical Textile
        Start-ups over a period of 5 years.
 ix.    Around 10 Industry oriented Research and Business Development
        projects on Technical Textiles and Man Made Fibre/Yarn is expected to
        be undertaken over a period of 5 years.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                                 7
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




3. TAMIL NADU NEW INTEGRATED TEXTILE POLICY
2025-26

     The Tamil Nadu New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26 supports the
industry through the following modes:
3.1 FISCAL SUPPORT

      The Government extends the following fiscal supports to motivate
individuals, business entities, or organizations to take focused actions to
achieve the vision and goals of the policy;

            a. Interest Subvention for Upgradation of Spinning units
            b. Handlooms Support Initiatives
            c. Powerloom Modernisation Scheme
            d. Capital Investment Subsidy for the Processing Sector
            e. Capital Investment Subsidy for Cut and Sew Sector
            f. Capital Investment Subsidy for Non-Conventional Fibers / Yarn
               manufacturing
            g. Resource Efficiency Audits
            h. Compliance and Standard certification
            i. Market Development & Branding
            j. Additional Special Subsidy




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            8
                                        TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




   3.2 SPECIAL FOCUS ON TECHNICAL TEXTILES

         a. Tamil Nadu Technical Textiles Mission (T3 M)
         b. Research & Development fund for Technical Textiles and Man
             Made Fibre (MMF)
         c. Fiscal support under other schemes and policies.

   3.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT

          It consists of the following interventions that enable strengthening
    and improving the ecosystem of the Textile Industry.

         a. Textile Trade Facilitation Centre (TTFC)
         b. Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)
         c. Exporters Excellence Awards
         d. Skill Development
         e. Ease of Doing Business
         f. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                           9
                                          TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




4. FISCAL SUPPORT

4.1 SPINNING SECTOR

      Tamil Nadu is prominent in India’s Textile landscape, leading the nation
with 55% of the total Spinning Mills, 43% of the installed spindles and 60% of
the rotors. Even though, the State is the pioneer of the spinning industry in
India, yarn productivity in the State is 18% to 20% lower than the national
average due to outdated machinery.

      Upgrading and modernizing the technology and replacing the vintage
machinery are crucial for preserving Tamil Nadu's dominant position in the
spinning industry.

      Considering the need for modernisation, the following announcement
was made in the Budget for the year 2024-2025 with a budget allocation of
Rs.500 crore for the next ten years.

6% Interest Subvention for investment on the spinning sector will be
provided for replacement of 15+ year old spindle capacity.

     In order to cover all the sub-segments of the spinning sector, a
proportionate allocation of funds has been made for Ring spinning, Open end
spinning and Air jet spinning as detailed below.


            Sl. No.         Machinery Type               Fund allocation

              1        Ring Spinning machines                   60%
              2        Open-end Spinning machine                25%

              3        Air-jet spinning                         15%


Government of Tamil Nadu                                                             10
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




4.2 HANDLOOM SECTOR

      Handloom sector is a symbol of Tamil Nadu’s glorious cultural heritage
and an important source of livelihood in the State. As per the 4 th All India
Handloom Census 2019-2020, Tamil Nadu has a strong presence in the
Handloom sector next to Assam and West Bengal in terms of number of
handlooms. Tamil Nadu has 8% of the total handlooms in the country and 7%
of the total ancillary workers in the country.




      Though the handloom products find traction among global buyers, the
same is not the case in domestic market due to high cost of manufacturing. Like
other textile products, the cost of raw materials accounts for over 60% in
handloom products also. Hence, the Government provides various support to
improve the cost of manufacturing in handloom sector and enhance the
competitiveness of the sector.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            11
                                          TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




4.2.1 Handloom Support Programme (HSP)

      HSP is a scheme implemented by the Department of Handlooms, with an
outlay of Rs.40 crore. It has been formulated to provide financial assistance for
innovation, diversification of products, market expansion and market
infrastructure for the Handloom sector. The stated objectives of the
programme are premiumization of handloom products, entrepreneurship
development, and design intervention. The State is providing fiscal incentives
to the handloom sector for the following components under HSP:

         i) Technological upgradation
         ii) Design development
         iii) Product diversification
         iv) Brand promotion and positioning
         v) Market expansion
         vi) Working capital assistance
         vii) Research and development
         vii) Skill Development

      The Government of Tamil Nadu is implementing the Handloom Support
Programme to address the market demand in the Handloom industry and
ensure fair wages for the weavers. Under this scheme,

    Additional corpus fund of Rs.10.00 crore will be provided to the
    Handloom Weavers Cooperative Societies to give credit for working
    capital requirements to strengthen their financial base.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                             12
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




4.2.2 Scheme for Mini Handloom Parks (MHP)
      To upgrade the standard of Handloom products, use latest technologies
and create market linkages, Mini Handloom Parks will be established. The Mini
Handloom Parks are envisaged to achieve the following objectives.
         a. Transition the handloom industry from cottage to Industrial mode.
         b. Make weaving an open ended profession.
         c. Ensure product premiumisation and assured market linkage by
             partnering with prominent retailer/wholesalers in Textile industry
             by achieving production volume to match domestic/export
             demand.
         d. Provide continuous employment on job work basis for the weavers
             throughout the year through retailer / wholesaler/ entrepreneurs
             / societies / industrial associations / master weavers.
         e. Ensure minimum wages per day to the weavers and wherever
             possible additional wages will be paid to weavers as incentives.
         f. Ensure pre-loom, weaving and post-loom facilities in one place.
         g. Ensure product diversification.
         h. Provide better working environment to the weavers.
         i. To create direct link between the weavers and the end users /
             major retail outlets.
         j. The Mini Handloom Park will be setup preferably in silk and cotton
             handloom weaving clusters.
The state will provide the minimum grant of Rs.2.00 Crore and it can be
enhanced upto Rs.5.00 Crore/MHP based on its project Size and
potential.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            13
                                       TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




4.2.3 Free supply of Electricity to Handloom weavers

  Scheme for free supply of electricity @ 300 units bi-monthly will
  continue to be provided to Handloom Weavers households.


4.2.4 Interest subsidy

  Interest Subsidy at the rate of 6% for Primary Handloom Weavers
  Cooperative Societies to reduce the financial burden of the societies
  will continue to be implemented.


4.2.5 Onboarding of Primary Weavers Cooperative Societies on e-
       commerce platforms
      The Government will support the onboarding of Primary Weavers
Cooperative Societies (PWCs) on e-commerce platforms for marketing of
Handloom products.

  Any training and onboarding costs borne by the e-commerce player
  will be fully reimbursed (100%) subject to a ceiling of Rs.2.00 Lakh/per
  PWC under HSP.

4.2.6 Facilitating the growth of domestic brands
      The State will support local manufacturers in learning brand-building
concepts.

  The State will engage a marketing / branding agency to provide
  training and guidance to manufacturers (through webinars / seminars
  / workshops) on the topic of brand development. A total outlay of
  Rs.2.00 Crore per year will be allocated for this initiative.


Government of Tamil Nadu                                                          14
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




4.3 POWERLOOM SECTOR

      The powerloom sector is one of the most significant segments of the
textile value chain. Among the different States in the south, Tamil Nadu has got
the largest concentration of powerlooms and the growth of this sector has been
phenomenal in the past three decades. In Tamil Nadu, Powerlooms are mainly
concentrated in the districts of Erode, Coimbatore, Tirupur, Salem, Namakkal,
Karur, Tiruvallur, Madurai, Tenkasi, and Virudhunagar. The majority of
powerlooms in Tamil Nadu are plain looms and a smaller number of shuttleless
looms. This sector requires modernisation and technological upgradation to
cope with the severe competition in the domestic and overseas market.

      The State has a large powerloom capacity which is in need of
upgrading/replacement. These looms primarily produce fabrics required for
Government schemes such as Supply of School Uniforms for students and
Distribution of Sarees and Dhoties. However, the powerloom industry is facing
the following challenges:

         • Low productivity due to restricted loom width and speed.

         ●   Excessive noise pollution in workplaces, causing stress for
             workers.
         ●   Fabric defects due to inconsistent shuttle speed.
         ●   Primitive loom design, limiting production to basic weaves and
             patterns, making premium fabric production impossible.
         ●   Poor working conditions and low wages, leading to frequent
             labour disputes demanding higher pay.

      To address these issues and to meet international quality standards,
there is a constant demand to shift from shuttle looms to advanced shuttleless

Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            15
                                           TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




looms. Replacing traditional shuttle looms with high-tech shuttleless looms will
bring the following advantages:

         i. Reduced production costs, lower pre-weaving processes, and
             minimized noise pollution.
        ii. High-value, premium-quality fabrics can be produced at lower
             costs.
       iii. Increased income for powerloom weavers due to increased
             productivity.
        iv. Improved         fabric   quality    and     productivity,      enhancing
             competitiveness in domestic and global markets.
        v. Defect-free fabric production due to advanced technology.
        vi. Easier maintenance and reduced workload for workers.

      The Tamil Nadu Government is taking the following proactive steps to
revive the declining powerloom industry by transitioning from outdated
shuttle looms to advanced shuttleless looms.

4.3.1 Powerloom Modernisation Scheme

      To address the evolving technological needs of the powerloom sector,
which supports the livelihood of 5 lakhs powerloom weavers, the following
financial assistance will be provided:

    50% Capital Subsidy, subject to a ceiling of Rs.1.00 lakh per loom, will
    be provided for the upgradation of old conventional powerlooms to
    Rapier shuttleless looms with Tuck-in-Device unit, with a maximum
    of 10 looms per beneficiary. A total of 3,000 looms are envisaged to be
    upgraded in a phased manner


Government of Tamil Nadu                                                              16
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




    20% Capital Subsidy, subject to a ceiling of Rs.1.50 lakh per loom, will
    be provided with a maximum of 5 looms per beneficiary, for the
    purchase of new Rapier looms or replacement of existing low-speed
    Rapier looms with Electronic Jacquard. Around 1,000 looms are
    envisaged to be modernized as shuttleless looms with Electronic
    Jacquard in a phased manner.


      This support is expected to increase the per loom production by 25%,
increase the wages to labourers and reduce power cost apart from increasing
the export earnings of the State and GST revenue.




4.3.2 Common Facility Centres

      To facilitate the establishment of worksheds for shuttleless looms in
powerloom clusters, which will provide required scale of economy for business
operations, to provide improved working condition in terms of more work
space, work environment, work efficiency to enhance their competitiveness in
the global market, financial assistance will be provided.


Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            17
                                       TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




  Towards setting-up of Common Facility Centres with Warping and
  Sizing Unit, Design Studio, Testing lab and Sample Production Centre ,
  etc., and post weaving facilities viz. processing, etc., financial assistance
  will be provided to a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), at subsidy of
  maximum Rs.60.00 lakh per unit.


      a) 5% subsidy with a ceiling of Rs.50.00 Lakh for Warping and
Sizing, will be provided.

     b) 25% subsidy with a ceiling of Rs.5.00 Lakh for Design studio will
be provided.

     c) 25% subsidy with a ceiling of Rs.2.50 Lakh for Testing Centre will
be provided.

     d) 25% subsidy with a ceiling of Rs.2.50 Lakh for Sample Production
Centre will be provided.

4.3.3 Free supply of Electricity to Powerloom weavers


 Scheme for free supply of electricity to powerloom weavers @1,000
 units bi-monthly and concessional power tariff will continue to be
 provided to powerloom sector for consumption above 1000 units.


4.4 PROCESSING SECTOR

      The textile processing sector in Tamil Nadu demonstrates a diverse
range of technological scales, spanning from traditional hand-operated
methods to cutting-edge automatic machine-operated technologies. This
technological spectrum is primarily concentrated in districts such as Erode,



Government of Tamil Nadu                                                          18
                                          TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




Tirupur, Karur, and Salem. Tamil Nadu is the first and foremost state ensuring
100% Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) of effluents from the processing units.

      Processing sector remains the weakest link in Tamil Nadu’s textile value
chain, necessitating a specialized focus and targeted interventions to enhance
its capacity, reduce reliance on other states for processing, and drive the
overall growth of the state’s textile industry.

      Strengthening this segment is crucial for improving the state’s
competitiveness in the national and global textile markets, ensuring
sustainable growth, and fostering economic development within the region.

      The state offers the following financial assistance to encourage
establishing new processing units and also for the expansion of the existing
processing sector.

  i. 25% Capital Investment Subsidy to set up New Textile Processing
      units (Dyeing, Printing and Finishing) and IETPs subject to a ceiling
      of Rs. 5.00 Crore per unit

 ii. 25% Capital Investment Subsidy for Expansion / Modernisation /
      Upgradation of existing Textile Processing Units and IETPs subject
      to a ceiling of Rs.4.00 Crore per unit

4.5 CUT AND SEW SECTOR

      Cut and Sew segment is identified as one of the champion sectors for
export promotion in the State. This sector is an essential contributor to India's
economy in terms of export earnings and employment generation. Although



Government of Tamil Nadu                                                             19
                                            TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




India is among the top exporters in the world, there is a growing realisation
that the full potential of this Industry is yet to be realized.

         Presently, 85% of the exporting units involved in cut and sew operations
(Garmenting and Home textiles) use only manual cutting techniques. Computer
Aided Design (CAD) has been a boon for designing and manufacturing industry
allowing efficiency and productivity which a normal pen-paper design can
never compare with. The CAD system and its tools have become an essential
component for fast fashions, designers and even traditional fashion
manufacturers. Availability of skilled labour to carry out cutting operation has
also become scarce.

         To promote modernisation and technological advancements in garment
manufacturing sectors, the following announcement was made in the Budget
for the year 2025-26 with a budget allocation of Rs.50 crore for the next five
years.

50% Capital Investment Subsidy for purchase of brand new fully
computerized cutting machine with CAD / CAM Software subject to the
maximum ceiling of Rs.50.00 lakh per machine per Common Facility
Centre (CFC).

4.6 NON-CONVENTIONAL FIBRE / YARN MANUFACTURING

         Tamil Nadu is the number one producer of cotton yarn and the leading
state in the country in export of cotton yarn. Further, there is a wide scope for
the Non-Conventional fibre/ yarn manufacturing.

         The state offers the following financial assistance to support the
development of alternative fibre/yarn categories that are sustainable in nature.

Government of Tamil Nadu                                                               20
                                       TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




This will improve farm-based activities and enable creation of “Wealth from
Waste”.

25% Capital Investment Subsidy for setting up of manufacturing facility
for non-conventional fibres/yarn such as Banana, water hyacinth,
bamboo, hemp, flax, pineapple fibre etc., subject to a ceiling of Rs.1.00
Crore per unit for plant and machinery.




4.7 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY AUDITS

      Resource (water, energy, chemicals, waste and wastewater) efficiency is
the key to a sustainable and cost-effective growth for any textile and apparel
manufacturing firm. Resource efficiency follows the first R of REDUCE, REUSE
and RECYCLE.



Government of Tamil Nadu                                                          21
                                          TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




     As part of ongoing sustainability initiatives across the global textile
industry, manufacturing firms are hiring resource efficiency experts to carry
out a walkthrough audit of their manufacturing facilities. These audits are
targeted at measuring the baseline levels of resource consumption,
benchmarking with international standards, identification of gaps and
suggesting corrective actions to reduce the resource consumption levels. The
state will support the Textile sector in conducting such audits in their factories.

  i. Financial Assistance up to 50% of the cost of the walkthrough audit,
      subject to a maximum ceiling of Rs. 3.00 Lakh per unit will be
      provided across the Textile and Apparel value chain for organizing
      basic cleaner production assessment by energy, water, chemicals,
      waste and wastewater experts.

  ii. Financial Assistance up to 25% of the cost of equipment required for
      energy and water conservation as per the recommendation of above
      audit, subject to a maximum of Rs. 10.00 Lakh will be given.
Note- The support for sustainability initiatives covered under the TN Industrial
Policy 2021 and TN MSME Policy 2021 will not be eligible to get subsidy under
this Policy.

4.8 COMPLIANCE AND STANDARD CERTIFICATIONS

      To facilitate the textile exporters to have a better understanding of the
conformity certificates required by various countries while exporting and
importing textile goods, the following announcement was made in the State
Assembly for the year 2025-26




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                             22
                                          TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




In order to assist the Textile exporters of Tamil Nadu, a compendium of
Compliance Certificates mandated by various countries will be prepared.



4.9 MARKET DEVELOPMENT AND BRANDING

      To enable the industries to access the global and emerging domestic
market and to support the entrepreneurs and industry associations for
participation in international exhibitions, the following financial assistance will
be provided.


 i. The Government extends support to set up Tamil Nadu pavilion and
     organize participation of up to 10 exhibitors/textile entrepreneurs
     in four International Textile Fairs every year.

 ii. Assistance at the rate of 50% of the cost towards setting up of stalls
     (maximum of Rs.2.00 Lakh per exhibitor) and 50% of Airfare
     assistance (maximum of Rs.1.25 Lakh per exhibitor) will be
     provided.

      To showcase the Tamil Nadu’s textile strength, facilitate B2B meetings
 and networking opportunities, the following announcement was made in the
 State Assembly for the year 2025-26.

 iii. To promote the textile business in the prominent textile clusters of
      Tamil Nadu, International Textile Exhibition will be conducted
      every year at the cost of Rs. 1.50 crore.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                             23
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




4.10 ADDITIONAL SPECIAL SUBSIDY

 In order to promote the development of industries in “C” Category
 Districts (22 Districts) as per the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021,
 support of 10% additional incentive will be provided subject to the
 ceiling fixed in the particular subsectors concerned.




5. SPECIAL FOCUS ON TECHNICAL TEXTILES SECTOR
      Technical Textiles are high-performance materials made using natural,
regenerated, synthetic, and mineral fibres, through weaving, knitting, or non-
woven processes. They are used in diverse sectors, including agriculture,
healthcare, defence, construction, automobile etc.,

      There is growing demand for Man-Made Fibres (MMF), especially
synthetic fabrics, in both domestic and global markets. Tamil Nadu, with its
strong textile base, is well-positioned to lead in this sector. Hence the following
schemes are being implemented by the Government of Tamil Nadu.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            24
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




5.1 TAMIL NADU TECHNICAL TEXTILE MISSION (T3M)

      To accelerate growth and promote diversification into Technical
Textiles, the following announcement was made in the Budget for the year
2025-26 with an initial budget allocation of Rs.15 crore.

To Promote the production of Technical Textiles and to encourage
investment in this sector in Tamil Nadu, the ‘Tamil Nadu Technical
Textile Mission (T3M)’ will be implemented.

Under this mission,

    1. Dedicated Project Management Team will be set up to:
          • Act as One-Stop Support Hub for businesses, manufacturers,
             exporters, and stakeholders in Technical Textiles


Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            25
                                       TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




          • Conduct market research, market surveys, maintain database and
             provide real-time insights on technical textile trends and demand
             forecasts
          • Facilitate market linkages and business development

     2. Reputed International and National Consultants will be empanelled
         to conduct Evangelizing Sessions to create awareness about
         opportunities in various Technical Textile segments.

     3. Consultant Incentive Support – 50% reimbursement of end-to-end
         handholding and technical support fee subject to ceiling of Rs. 50.00
         lakh per company to diversify into Technical Textiles and upon
         successful commissioning of the project.

5.2 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT

      To foster innovation and support new product development, the
following announcement was made in the Budget for the year 2024-25,

The Government will set up a dedicated “Research and Business
Development Fund for Technical Textiles and Man Made Fibre with a
corpus of Rs. 25.00 crore to provide grants to Research units and private
companies for new product development and research” for Technical
Textiles and Man-made Fibres




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                          26
                                            TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




5.3 FISCAL SUPPORT FOR TECHNICAL TEXTILES UNDER
    OTHER SCHEMES AND POLICIES

  5.3.1 Special Scheme for Technical Textiles, MMF Yarn from
        Recycled Products, MMF Fabric & Apparel Manufacturing
        under TNIP 2021
             The special scheme was launched as an extension of the Tamil
       Nadu Industrial Policy 2021. This scheme                    is applicable           for
       new/expansion Projects engaged in manufacturing of ‘Eligible Products
       in MMF Fabric, MMF yarn from recycled materials, Technical Textiles &
       Apparel’    with    the    following    minimum       investment,         minimum
       employment, and District Category

       Eligibility Criteria

   Sl. Segment                 Minimum      Minimum        Standard             District
   No Category                Investment   Employment     Investment           Category
                                                            Period

   1.1 a.Technical         Rs. 50 crores      50 jobs       4 years‘A’, ‘   B’ & ‘C’
       Textiles                                                             Category
       (New/ Expansion)                                                     Districts
        b. MMF yarn        Rs. 50 crores      50 jobs       4 years          ‘B’ & ‘C’
        from recycled                                                        Category
        materials                                                            Districts

Government of Tamil Nadu                                                                   27
                                            TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




          c. MMF Fabric*   Rs. 100 crores    50 jobs        4 years       ‘B’ & ‘C’
          (New/ Expansion)                                               Category
                                                                         Districts
  1.2      a.Technical          Rs.             -           2 years         ‘B’ & ‘C’
           Textiles             100                                        Category
           (Diversification)    crores                                     Districts
           b.MMF yarn from Rs.                  -           2 years
           recycled materi- 100
           als (Diversifica- crores
           tion)
           c.MMF Fabric*        Rs. 100         -           2 years
           (Diversification)    crores
  1.3      Apparel          Rs.             2,000 jobs      4 years         ‘B’ & ‘C’
           (New/ Expansion) 100                                            Category
                            crores                                         Districts
  1.4      Common Facility                                  4 years         ‘B’ & ‘C’
           Centres in MMF &                                                Category
           Technical Textiles                                              Districts


5.3.2 Incentives for Technical Textiles, MMF Yarn from Recycled
Materials & MMF Fabric
   i. Investment Promotion Subsidy:
           Under this scheme, manufacturing units engaged in production of
        Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials & MMF Fabric
        can avail one of the following options for Investment Promotion
        Subsidy

              a) Special Capital Subsidy

                                 (or)

              b) Turnover-based Subsidy

          a. Special Capital Subsidy
                       Projects manufacturing Eligible Products in Technical
            Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials or MMF Fabric can

Government of Tamil Nadu                                                                28
                                             TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




            avail a Special Capital Subsidy of 25% of EFA disbursed in equal
            annual instalments over 10 years.
        a. Turnover based Subsidy
                      Projects manufacturing Eligible Products in Technical
            Textiles or MMF yarn from recycled materials or MMF Fabric can
            avail the following Turnover-based Subsidy:


  District         Employment Employment Employment >                   Employment >
 Category           >500 jobs  >1000 jobs  2,000jobs                      4,000jobs
 ‘A’ district         0.75%            1%               1.5%                 1.75%

 ‘B’ district           1%           1.25%             1.75%                  1.8%

 ‘C’ district         1.25%           1.5%              1.8%                   2%



 ii. Other Subsidies for (Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled
   materials and MMF Fabric)

       Eligible Projects in Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled
materials & MMF Fabric can avail other subsidies & Standard Incentives as per
Section 14 - ‘Special Incentives for Sunrise Sectors’ of TNIP 2021.

5.3.3 Incentives for Diversification in Technical Textiles
   a. Special Capital Subsidy
                Diversification Projects can avail a Special Capital Subsidy of 10%
      of EFA disbursed in equal annual instalments over 10 years, subject to a
      ceiling of Rs. 3.00 crore per annum




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                                29
                                          TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




   b. Other Subsidies for Diversification into Technical Textiles

            Eligible Projects in Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled
      materials and MMF Fabric can avail other subsidies & Standard
      Incentives as per Section 14 - ‘Special Incentives for Sunrise Sectors’ and
      other subsidies of TNIP 2021.

5.3.4 Support for Common Facility Centres (CFCs)

       i. Incentives for Development of Common Facility Centres

            To support private players in setting up CFCs in the State,
      Government of Tamil Nadu shall reimburse 50% of the capital
      expenditure (e.g., towards building labs and purchase of equipment)
      subject to a ceiling of Rs.10.00 crore.

      ii. Marketing Assistance

            The Government of Tamil Nadu shall reimburse 50% of the physical
      and digital marketing expenses of MMF Fabric & Technical Textiles
      manufacturing units that export more than 50% of their products,
      capped to Rs. 20.00 lakh per year per firm up to a period of 5 years.

      iii. Traceability Incentive

             50% of the expenditure incurred on the purchase of a specialized
      software license for Traceability Systems or implementing the
      Traceability Systems within the Standard Investment Period, shall be
      reimbursed subject to a ceiling of Rs. 25.00 lakh.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                             30
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




      iv. Design Skilling Support

            Projects that involve design studios with art design centre, CAD/
      rendering software to develop customer centric designs can avail Design
      Skilling Support of Rs 10,000 per month per designer for 6 months for
      the residents of Tamil Nadu as certified by Revenue Department
      authorities subject to maximum of 50 employees.

       The detail of the Special Scheme for Technical Textiles, MMF Yarn from
Recycled Products, MMF Fabric & Apparel Manufacturing under TNIP 2021 is
enclosed in the Annexure II for reference.

    1. MSME Policy 2021

      •    Technical Textiles and Medical Textiles have been identified as
          ‘Thrust Sector’ under this policy.
      •    A Special Capital Subsidy of 25% on plant and machinery value
          subject to a ceiling Rs.1.50 crore is provided for Micro, Small and
          Medium Units for investment.

6. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
      The Tamil Nadu Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26 adopts a forward-
looking approach to strengthen the textile ecosystem, ensuring resilience
against global uncertainties and avoiding dependence on any single export
destination.    Through     a   comprehensive        framework        encompassing
modernisation, diversification, and sustainability, the policy promotes the
development of technical textiles, non-conventional fibres, and value-added
manufacturing.

       Dedicated measures such as the Tamil Nadu Technical Textile Mission
(T3M), encouragement of ESG compliance, and resource efficiency audits
Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            31
                                        TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




enhance competitiveness and global credibility. The creation of Tamil Nadu
Pavilions at international fairs and facilitation of market linkages through the
Textile Trade Facilitation Centre enable the state to expand into diverse
geographies and emerging markets.

       Collectively, these initiatives position Tamil Nadu as a self-reliant,
sustainable, and globally trusted textile hub capable of adapting to unforeseen
challenges while maintaining balanced and diversified export growth.

6.1 TEXTILE TRADE FACILITATION CENTRE (TTFC)

      To identify market opportunities for the Textile industry especially in the
 MSME sector and facilitate exports and imports in the State, the following
 announcement was made in the State Assembly for the year 2025-26:

   To increase the Tamil Nadu textile exports and establish market
   linkages between MSME and International Markets, a dedicated
   Textile Trade Facilitation Centre (TTFC) with digital platform is
   established at the cost of Rs.50.00 lakh.


6.2 TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE (TAC)

      To monitor the techno-economic landscape of the textile industry and
provide recommendations to enhance the State Textile industry and its policy
framework, a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) was formed by the
Government of Tamil Nadu.
      This Committee functions under the leadership of the Hon’ble Minister
for Handlooms and Textiles which aims to fortify the textile industry. It
consists of representatives from various sectors, including textile federations,
research and educational institutes, and pioneer industries.
Government of Tamil Nadu                                                           32
                                       TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




6.3 EXPORTERS EXCELLENCE AWARDS
      To felicitate the contribution of the textile exporters in the State, the
 following announcement was made in the State Assembly for the year
 2025-26

  To recognize the contribution of the Textile Exporters and to encourage
  them to contribute further, Best Exporters Award is given in 5
  categories namely viz. Micro, Small, Medium, Sub-large and Large
  Exporters at the cost of Rs.12.00 lakh.


6.4 SKILL DEVELOPMENT
      The state will introduce textile industry-related short to medium-term
certification courses (6 months to 1 year) in partnership with Polytechnic
colleges, ITI, and other educational institutions. The courses would emphasize
offering a combination of classroom and Industrial Training. There will be an
emphasis on hands-on training including supply chain management, data
analytics, industrial engineering, brand development, and showroom
management. Training subsidies will be provided through Tamil Nadu Skill
Development Corporation.

      After completion of the course, placement support will be provided in
coordination with the industry. With the help of Experts, the Department will
provide proper guidance to such institutes in adopting the latest syllabus as
per the needs of the industry.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                          33
                                         TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




6.5 EASE OF DOING BUSINESS
  6.5.1 Handholding support
   i. The Department of Textiles and the Department of Handlooms will be
       the nodal agencies regarding all matters related to this policy.

  ii. The Department concerned (Department of Textiles or Department of
       Handlooms) will provide assistance / handholding support to obtain
       necessary clearances from other Government Departments to establish
       Textile Businesses in the State through the coordination with MSME
       Department and GUIDANCE.

  6.5.2 Subsidy Disbursement Mechanism
      To facilitate ease of doing business and ensure a transparent, efficient
disbursement mechanism for effective implementation of the policy,
applications will be received via Single Online Portal and processed within
stipulated Time-frame.

      Upon approval, the incentive amount will be credited to the applicant’s
bank account by the Department of Textiles / Department of Handlooms
through Direct Beneficiary Transfer (DBT).

6.6 FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENTS IN TEXTILES

      The Foreign Direct Investment Policy allows 100% FDI through
automatic route without any limit on the extent of foreign ownership for in-
bound investments in the textile sector. Thus, there is no restriction on any
amount of FDI, with or without local partners. Government incentives are
equally applicable to FDI units. There is no requirement of prior approval
either by Government of India or Reserve Bank of India. Investors are only


Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            34
                                              TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




required to notify the RBI regional office within 30 days of the receipt of
inward remittance.

Note: As per Press Note No. 3 (2020 Series) released by Ministry of Commerce & DPIIT,
under the FDI Policy Section, an entity of a country which shares land border with India
or where the beneficial owner of an investment into India is situated in or is a citizen of
any such country, can invest only under the Government route. Further, a citizen of
Pakistan or an entity incorporated in Pakistan can invest, only under the Government
route and only in sectors/activities other than defense, space, atomic energy and
sectors/activities prohibited for foreign investment.




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                                 35
                                             TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




                                  ANNEXURE-I
                             TERMS & DEFINITIONS

1. Textile and Apparel value chain:
     Any process or activity related to fibre (natural and man-made fibre),
  filament, yarn, fabric, home textiles, Ready Made Garments, and Technical
  Textiles is considered a part of the textile and apparel value chain.
2. Date of Production:
     All textile and apparel units must obtain the Certification of Date of
  Production (DoP) from the competent authority for availing benefits under this
  policy.
     The “date of production” of a unit shall mean the date on which the
  unit/machinery actually commences commercial production of the item
  (generation of 1st commercial invoice) for which the unit has been registered.
3. Operational period of the policy
     The New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26 of Tamil Nadu will come into
  force from the date of announcement of this Policy by the Government of Tamil
  Nadu as per the notification in the official gazette and shall remain in force
  until further notification. The Guidelines for the implementation of the
  provisions of the Textile Policy will be formulated and issued separately for
  effective implementation.
     Eligible units: The units which will commence commercial production and
  obtain a Certificate of Date of Operation within the policy period will be eligible
  to avail the benefits under this scheme.




  Government of Tamil Nadu                                                              36
                                           TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




4. Resolution of the Doubts
     Doubts relating to the interpretation of any term and/or dispute relating to
  the operation of any provision under this policy shall be referred to the
  Department of Textiles and Department of Handlooms, Government of Tamil
  Nadu for clarification/resolution and the decision of Government in this regard
  shall be final and binding on all concerned.

5. Power to amend the policy
     Notwithstanding anything contained in the New Integrated Textile Policy
  2025-26 of Tamil Nadu, the State Government may amend, modify, alter or
  withdraw any of the provisions and/or the schemes mentioned herein above.
  The same will be notified officially and will be effective from the date of the
  notification.

6. Prevention of Double Claim Benefit
    Beneficiaries are entitled to claim benefits for a specific component only
  under one policy. Beneficiaries cannot claim or receive benefits for the same
  component under multiple policies provided by the Government of Tamil Nadu
  or any of its agencies i.e., any Textile industry/unit having availed subsidy
  under Tamil Nadu Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26 shall not avail of any other
  subsidy from Tamil Nadu Government for the same component.


7. Definitions:
   a)   Government: Government means the Tamil Nadu State Government.
   b)   Existing unit: Any Textile unit existing prior to the announcement of this
  policy and any unit coming under expansion/diversification/modernisation
  during the period of this policy.



  Government of Tamil Nadu                                                            37
                                           TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




      Expansion: Existing units (in the textile and apparel value chain)
increasing its gross fixed capital investment by 25% and increasing its total
installed capacity by 25% as compared to the previous year will be considered
as expansion. Such expansion will include forward and backward integration
or sub-segments.

      Diversification: Existing unit undertakes segment diversification within
the textile and apparel value (e.g. RMG to home textiles, woven fabric to non-
woven fabrics, conventional textiles to technical textiles, etc.).

      Modernisation/Technology Upgradation: Replacement of existing
machinery     with   advanced     technology     resulting    in   improvement         of
productivity, quality, and cost efficiency.
   c) New unit: Any Textile unit which has established its fixed assets and
commenced commercial production within the operating period of this policy

   d) Project Cost/ Fixed Assets: The assets created for the project which
include Factory building, plant and machinery and other infrastructure like
electrical, transportation and installation of machinery, ETP, Firefighting
system, roads, compound wall, water supply system, land cost.

   e) Textile and Apparel: Manufacturing of all kinds of textile products like
fibres, yarns/filaments, fabrics, garments, and made-ups.

   f) Composite Unit: A project comprising total vertical integration of the
value chain, i.e. spinning, weaving/ knitting, processing and garmenting/made
up or complete set up for manufacturing of nonwoven products.

   g) Non-Conventional Fibre: Banana fibre, water hyacinth fibre, bamboo
fibre, hemp, flax, pineapple fibre etc.,


Government of Tamil Nadu                                                              38
                                           TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




   h) Technical Textiles: Functional textile product which could be used in
the industrial, defense, research and other advanced sectors due to its
specialized technical properties. These products are classified into following
categories based on their quality and end use: (1) Agro tech, (2) Build tech, (3)
Cloth tech, (4) Geo tech (5) Home tech, (6) Indutech, (7) Medi tech, (8) Mobile
tech, (9) Echo tech, (10) Pack tech, (11) Pro tech (Protective textile) (12) Sport
tech


   i) MSME: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) definition laid out
by Government of India as per MSMED Act 2006 (as updated from time to
time).

   j) “C” Category Districts: As per the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021
Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Kanyakumari,
Madurai,      Mayiladuthurai,        Nagapattinam,      Perambalur,        Pudukottai,
Ramanathapuram,        Sivagangai,     Tenkasi,   Thanjavur,      Theni,    Tiruvarur,
Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Thiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Virudhunagar (as
updated from time to time)




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                              39
                                 TN New Integrated Textile Policy 2025-26




                           ANNEXURE-II
      Special Scheme for Technical Textiles, MMF Yarn from
      Recycled Products, MMF Fabric & Apparel Manufacturing under
      TNIP 2021




Government of Tamil Nadu                                                    40
       Special Scheme for Technical Textiles, MMF Yarn from Recycled
       Products, MMF Fabric & Apparel Manufacturing in Tamil Nadu


Tamil Nadu is the leading producer and exporter of textile products in India due to its well-developed
ecosystem. The State has the largest number of textile factories in India (50% of textile mills in India)
and produces 40% of total yarn in India. The State also exports ~20% of Indian apparel exports,
which is the highest among the Indian states. Technical Textiles, Man-Made Fibre (MMF) Fabric and
Apparel (including MMF apparel) have been identified as key segments that leverage the potential
and strengths of Tamil Nadu and align with its aspirations of achieving higher value addition and job
creation. Presently, MMF Fabric & Technical Textiles industry is in nascent state of development
in the State and involves high initial outlay for setting up manufacturing, R&D facility and Apparel
manufacturing is highly employment intensive. The investment trend in Technical Textiles & MMF
Fabric is predominantly through diversification and Apparel manufacturing is through forward
integration; hence, the size of the potential projects is typically Sub-Large (greater than Rs. 50 crores
and less than Rs. 300 crores).

Under Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy (TNIP 2021), Sub-Large projects are eligible for Rs.1 crore back
ended Capital Subsidy in ‘A’ & ‘B’ Category Districts & 5% of EFA over 5 years in ‘C’ Category
Districts, Green Industry Incentive for up to Rs. 1 crore, Electricity Tax exemption for 5 years. Given
the nascent stage of development in Technical Textiles & MMF Fabric and to promote the high
employment intensive Apparel industry in the state, a Special Scheme is recommended for Technical
Textiles, MMF Fabric and Apparel manufacturing units in the State with a relaxation on investment
threshold under TNIP 2021 to include Sub-Large Projects. Further, to encourage circular economy,
investments in manufacturing of MMF yarn from recycled products like PET shall be encouraged.

The special scheme is an extension of the TNIP 2021 and is applicable for new/expansion Projects
engaged in manufacturing of ‘Eligible Products in MMF Fabric, MMF yarn from recycled materials,
Technical Textiles & Apparel’ (as defined in Clause 1.7) with the following minimum investment,
minimum employment, and District Category:




Table 1: Eligibility Criteria
 Sl.       Segment           Minimum          Minimum            Standard          District Categorya
 No        Category         Investment       Employment         Investment
                                                                  Period
 1.1    a.Technical         Rs. 50 crores       50 jobs            4 years         ‘A’, ‘B’ & ‘C’ Category
        Textiles                                                                            Districts
        (New/ Expansion)

        b. MMF yarn         Rs. 50 crores       50 jobs            4 years          ‘B’ & ‘C’ Category
        from recycled                                                                    Districts
        materials
        c. MMF Fabric*      Rs. 100 crores      50 jobs            4 years          ‘B’ & ‘C’ Category
        (New/ Expansion)                                                                 Districts
1.2   a.Technical          Rs. 100 crores        -              2 years          ‘B’ & ‘C’ Category
      Textiles                                                                        Districts
      (Diversification)
      b.MMF yarn from      Rs. 100 crores        -              2 years
      recycled materi-
      als (Diversifica-
      tion)
      c.MMF Fabric*        Rs. 100 crores        -              2 years
      (Diversification)
1.3   Apparel              Rs. 100 crores   2,000 jobs          4 years          ‘B’ & ‘C’ Category
      (New/ Expansion)                                                                Districts

1.4   Common Facility                                           4 years          ‘B’ & ‘C’ Category
      Centres in MMF &                                                                Districts
      Technical Textiles



Note:
1. The minimum investment and employment commitment must be met by the unit(s) within the
   Standard Investment Period as specified above and the District Category shall be as per TNIP
   2021.
2. MMF Fabric (1.1.c) and (1.2.c) excludes investment towards MMF yarn (non-recycled) & MMF
   spinning. The investments in MMF yarn/spinning shall be eligible for incentives as per TNIP 2021
   subject to eligibility. In case of projects with manufacturing of MMF yarn from both recycled and
   non-recycled products, only the Investment/Output proportionate to MMF yarn from recycled
   materials shall considered under this scheme.

2.1 Incentives for Technical Textiles, MMF Yarn from Recycled
    Materials & MMF Fabric
a. Investment Promotion Subsidy:
Under this scheme, manufacturing units engaged in production of Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from
recycled materials & MMF Fabric can avail one of the following options for Investment Promotion
Subsidy – a) Special Capital Subsidy or b) Turnover-based Subsidy, subject to meeting the eligibility
criteria (Table 1.1). These options are mutually exclusive, and a one-time choice has to be exercised
at the beginning of the Project by the investor.
        i. Special Capital Subsidy for Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled
            materials & MMF Fabric:
        Projects manufacturing Eligible Products in Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled
        materials or MMF Fabric can avail a Special Capital Subsidy of 15% of EFA disbursed in
        equal annual instalments over 10 years. The company can choose to avail the Special
        Capital Subsidy for Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials & MMF Fabric
        from the date of commercial production or upon achieving the minimum eligible investment
        (i.e., Rs.50 crore for Technical Textiles, Rs.50 crore MMF yarn from recycled materials or
        Rs.100 crore for MMF Fabric) and minimum eligible employment of 50 jobs, whichever is
        later. If the company chooses to avail the Special Capital Subsidy prior to the completion of
        the investment and employment commitment, the Special Capital Subsidy shall be disbursed
        in tranches corresponding to the cumulative investment made until then and subsequent
        tranches for actual annual incremental investment within the investment period.
       i. Turnover based Subsidy for Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled
          materials & MMF Fabric:
       Projects manufacturing Eligible Products in Technical Textiles or MMF yarn from recycled
       materials or MMF Fabric can avail the following Turnover-based Subsidy:

   Turnover based Subsidy (% Turnover) for Eligible Technical Textiles, MMF Yarn
                 from Recycled Materials & MMF Fabric projects
       District       Employment       Employment        Employment >         Employment >
      Category         >500 jobs        >1000 jobs         2,000jobs            4,000jobs

      ‘A’ district         0.75%             1%                1.5%                 1.75%

      ‘B’ district          1%              1.25%             1.75%                 1.8%

      ‘C’ district         1.25%             1.5%              1.8%                  2%


  Turnover-based Subsidy shall be applicable as a percentage of the Turnover in Eligible Products
  in Technical Textiles or MMF yarn from recycled materials or MMF Fabric in each financial year
  for a period of 10 years from the date of commercial production or upon achieving the minimum
  eligible investment (i.e., Rs.50 crore for Technical Textiles, Rs.50 crore MMF yarn from recycled
  materials and Rs.100 crore for MMF Fabric) and minimum eligible employment of 500 jobs,
  whichever is later. This is subject to the following conditions:

       a. If the Project creates employment of 500-2000 jobs within the Standard Investment
          Period, then the ceiling for the Turnover-based Subsidy shall be 2.5% of cumulative
          investment in Eligible Fixed Assets per annum for a period of 10 years.
       b. If the Project creates employment of more than 2000 jobs within the Standard Investment
          Period, then the ceiling for the Turnover-based Subsidy shall be 4% of cumulative
          investment in Eligible Fixed Assets per annum for a period of 10 years.
       c. If the Project creates employment of more than 1000 jobs within the investment period,
          the company shall be eligible for drawing a higher percentage of turnover subsidy from
          the year of achieving the higher employment, as specified in the Table above.
       d. Turnover-based Subsidy for expansion projects shall be determined on a case-to-case
          basis and base volume principle will be applicable.


b. Other Subsidies for (Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from
   recycled materials and MMF Fabric)
  Eligible Projects in Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials & MMF Fabric can avail
  other subsidies & Standard Incentives as per Section 14 - ‘Special Incentives for Sunrise Sectors’
  of TNIP 2021 namely:-

       i.  Training Subsidy – Rs. 4000/6000 per worker per month for 6 months for residents of
           Tamil Nadu/women and transgender employees, persons with benchmarked disabilities,
           persons from SC or ST communities as certified by Revenue Department Authorities.
       ii. Land Cost Incentive – Land allotment shall be made at a 10% concessional rate for
           “A” & “B” Category Districts and at a 50% concessional rate in “C” Districts in parks
           promoted by SIPCOT, for land up to 20% of EFA. For private lands in “C” districts,
           50% subsidy on the cost of land as per guideline value up to an extent of 50 acres and
             subject to land cost not exceeding 20% of EFA and a cap of Rs. 2 cr. provided that at least
             70% of the land is used for manufacturing operations.
       iii. Electricity Tax Incentive - Electricity tax exemption for a period of 5 years on power
             purchased from TANGEDCO or generated and consumed from captive sources.
             (incremental power in case of expansion projects).
       iv. Stamp Duty Incentive - 100% concession on Stamp duty payable on lease or purchase of
             land/shed/buildings meant for industrial use in parks promoted by SIPCOT in all districts.
             In the case of private lands, stamp duty concession will be given as a 100% back ended
             subsidy for up to 50 acres on fulfilment of investment and employment commitment.
       v. Green Industry Incentive - 25% subsidy on the cost of setting up environmental protection
             infrastructure (as specified in 13.5.3 of TNIP 2021) subject to a limit of Rs. 1 crore.
       vi. Enhanced Quality Certification Incentive - reimbursement of 50% of the total cost incurred
             for obtaining certifications limited to Rs. 1 crore.
       vii. Enhanced Intellectual Property Creation Incentive – reimbursement of 50% of the
             expenditure incurred on patent, copyright, trademarks, Geographical Indicators registration
             subject to a maximum of Rs. 1 crore. In addition to the above, the Project shall also be
             eligible for the below incentive under this special scheme:
       viii. Interest Subvention – Eligible projects may avail 5% as a rebate in the rate of interest on
             actual term loans taken for the purpose of financing the project, for a period of 6 years
             subject to annual ceiling limits provided below:


        Investment range (Rs. crore)              Annual ceiling for Interest Subvention (Rs. crore)

               Rs. 50 to 150 crores                                Rs.10 lakhs per annum
              Rs. 150 to 300 crores                               Rs. 15 lakhs per annum


 2.2 Incentives for Diversification in Technical Textiles, MMF Yarn from
     Recycled Materials & MMF Fabric
In order to enable the textile manufacturers in the State to catch up with the breakout growth of Technical
Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials & MMF Fabric, the existing textile manufacturers will require
infusion of additional capital and upskilling the existing workforce. However, some of these projects
may not lead to a significant increase in overall capacity but will have forward integration units that
would lead to manufacturing of Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials & MMF Fabric.
Projects of existing textile manufacturers diversifying to manufacturing of Technical Textiles, MMF yarn
from recycled materials & MMF Fabric meeting the following eligibility criteria (Table 1-1.2) shall be
supported by the Government of Tamil Nadu:
       1. Minimum investment of Rs. 50 crores in ‘B’ or ‘C’ Category Districts within the Standard
          Investment Period for Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials and Minimum
          investment of Rs. 100 crores in ‘B’ or ‘C’ Category Districts within the Standard Investment
          Period for MMF Fabric.
       2. At least 25% of the turnover is attributable to manufacturing of Eligible Products in Technical
          Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials & MMF Fabric from new product lines, as
          compared to the sales prior to the investment period.
Projects that meet the above criteria of diversification into Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled
materials & MMF Fabric shall be eligible for the following diversification support:
a. Special Capital Subsidy for Diversification in Technical
   Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials and MMF Fabric
  Diversification Projects can avail a Special Capital Subsidy of 10% of EFA disbursed in equal
  annual instalments over 10 years, subject to a ceiling of Rs. 3 crores per annum. The company
  can choose to avail the Special Capital Subsidy from the date of commercial production or upon
  achieving the minimum eligible investment (i.e., Rs.100 crore for Technical Textiles, Rs.100 crore
  for MMF yarn from recycled materials and Rs.100 crore for MMF Fabric), whichever is later. If the
  company chooses to avail the Special Capital Subsidy prior to the completion of the investment
  and employment commitment, the Special Capital Subsidy shall be disbursed in tranches
  corresponding to the cumulative investment made until then and subsequent tranches for actual
  annual incremental investment within the investment period.

b. Other Subsidies for Diversification into Technical Textiles, MMF
   yarn from recycled materials and MMF Fabric Production
  Eligible Projects in Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials and MMF Fabric can
  avail other subsidies & Standard Incentives as per Section 14 - ‘Special Incentives for Sunrise
  Sectors’ and other subsidies as listed below:

     i.  Diversification Skilling Support – Rs. 4000/6000 per worker per month for 6 months for
         residents of Tamil Nadu/women and transgender employees, persons with benchmarked
         disabilities, persons from SC or ST communities as certified by Revenue Department
         Authorities for upskilling up to 10% of the workforce.
     ii. Interest Subvention – Eligible projects may avail 5% as a rebate in the rate of interest on
         actual term loans taken for the purpose of financing the project, for a period of 6 years
         subject to annual ceiling limits provided below:

      Investment range (Rs. crore)            Annual ceiling for Interest Subvention (Rs. crore)

             Rs. 50 to 150 crores                             Rs.10 lakhs per annum
            Rs. 150 to 300 crores                             Rs. 15 lakhs per annum



2.3 Incentives for Apparel Manufacturing
  Under this scheme, manufacturing units engaged in production of apparel (including MMF apparel)
  can avail the following incentives, subject to meeting the eligibility criteria (Table 1-1.3).

a. Turnover–based Subsidy
  Projects manufacturing Eligible Products in Apparel can avail the following Turnover-based
  Subsidy:

                         Turnover-based Subsidy for Apparel Manufacturing

      District Category              Employment >               Employment > 4,000 jobs
                                      2,000 jobs
          ‘B’ District                    1.75%                             1.8%
          ‘C’ District                    1.8%                               2%
  Turnover-based Subsidy shall be applicable as a percentage of the turnover in Eligible Products
  in Apparel in each financial year from the date of commercial production or upon achieving the
  minimum eligible investment of Rs. 100 crores and minimum eligible employment of 2000 jobs,
  whichever is later. This is subject to the following conditions:
      i.   In case of Sub-Large projects (Investment <Rs.300 crore) in Apparel manufacturing in ‘B’
           & ‘C’ Category Districts creating employment of more than 2,000 jobs within the Standard
           Investment Period, the ceiling for the Turnover-based Subsidy shall be 2.5% of cumulative
           investment in Eligible Fixed Assets per annum for a period of 10 years.
      ii. In case of Large and above projects (Investment > Rs.300 crore) in Apparel manufacturing
           in ‘B’ & ‘C’ Category Districts creating employment of more than 2,000 jobs within the
           Standard Investment Period, the ceiling for the Turnover-based Subsidy shall be 4% of
           cumulative investment in Eligible Fixed Assets per annum for a period of 10 years.
      iii. If the Project creates employment for more than 4,000 jobs within the investment period,
           the company shall be eligible for drawing a higher percentage of turnover subsidy from the
           year of achieving the higher employment, as specified in the Table above.
      iv. Turnover-based Subsidy for expansion projects shall be determined on a case-to-case
           basis and base volume principle will be applicable.
b. Other Subsidies for Apparel Manufacturing
  Projects manufacturing Eligible Products in Apparel can avail other subsidies & Standard Incentives
  as per Section 13 - ‘Structured Package for Large & above Projects’ of TNIP 2021 namely: –
      i.   Training Subsidy – Rs. 4000/6000 per worker per month for 6 months for residents of
           Tamil Nadu/women and transgender employees, persons with benchmarked disabilities,
           persons from SC or ST communities as certified by Revenue Department Authorities.
      ii. Land Cost Incentive - Land allotment at a 10% concessional rate for “B” Category Districts
           and at a 50% concessional rate in “C” Category Districts in parks promoted by SIPCOT, for
           land up to 20% of EFA.
      iii. Electricity Tax Incentive - Electricity tax exemption for a period of 5 years on power
           purchased from TANGEDCO or generated and consumed from captive sources.
      iv. Stamp Duty Incentive - 50% concession on Stamp duty payable on lease or purchase of
           land/shed/buildings meant for industrial use in parks promoted by SIPCOT in “B” Category
           Districts, and 100% concession in “C” Category Districts.
      v. Green Industry Incentive - 25% subsidy on the cost of setting up environmental protection
           infrastructure subject to a limit of Rs. 1 crore.
      vi. Quality Certification Incentive - reimbursement of 50% of the total cost incurred for obtaining
           certifications limited to Rs. 25 lakhs.
      vii. Intellectual Property Creation Incentive – reimbursement of 50% of the expenditure
           incurred on patent, copyright, trademarks, Geographical Indicators registration subject to
           a maximum of Rs. 30 lakhs.
2.4 Support for Common Facility Centres (CFCs) in Technical Textiles &
    MMF
  The Government of Tamil Nadu seeks to support establishment of Common Facility Centres (CFCs)
  in the State focussed on Technical Textiles and MMF. Projects of existing textile manufacturers
  in the State (with manufacturing operations in the State for above 10 years) in Technical Textiles,
  MMF yarn from recycled materials and MMF Fabric (subject to eligibility criteria for Section 1.1
  and Section 1.2) seeking to set up Common Facility Centres (CFCs) in the State shall be eligible
  for the following support. Up to first three relevant CFC projects during the policy period shall be
  incentivised under this scheme. This includes the following support:
i. Incentives for Development of Common Facility Centres (CFCs)
   Common Facility Centres (CFCs) for incubation, design, training, testing and certification can
   serve as a catalyst for development of new segments in MMF Fabric & Technical Textiles. These
   can be utilised for prototyping and product development which could eventually lead to commercial
   production and contribute to creation of manufacturing capabilities of MMF Fabric & Technical
   Textiles in existing textiles clusters. Thus, to support private players in setting up CFCs in the State,
   GoTN shall reimburse 50% of the capital expenditure (e.g., towards building labs and purchase
   of equipment) subject to a ceiling of Rs.10 crore during the policy period. This support can be
   availed by technical universities/Special Purpose Vehicles formed by group of textile companies/
   Industry Associations provided the facilities within the CFC is made accessible to all institutions
   and industries engaged in research or manufacturing of MMF Fabric & Technical Textiles, with a
   focus on Indu-tech, Pro-Tech, Auto-Tech, Mobil-Tech and Meditech products.

ii. Marketing Assistance
   Based on Tamil Nadu Exports Strategy 2021, for Projects that utilise the services of the Common
   Facility Centres for MMF Fabric & Technical Textiles, the Government of Tamil Nadu shall
   reimburse 50% of the physical and digital marketing expenses of MMF Fabric & Technical Textiles
   manufacturing units that export more than 50% of their products, capped to Rs. 20 lakhs per year
   per firm up to a period of 5 years.

iii. Traceability Incentive
   In order to support establishing an end-to-end system that enhances traceability by capturing
   information on provenance, authenticity, ethical credentials, and quality, 50% of the expenditure
   incurred on the purchase of a specialized software license for Traceability Systems or implementing
   the Traceability Systems within the Standard Investment Period, shall be reimbursed subject to a
   ceiling of Rs. 25 lakhs.

iv. Design Skilling Support
   Projects that involve design studios with art design centres (in-house or common facility), CAD/
   rendering software to develop customer centric designs can avail Design Skilling Support of Rs
   10,000 per month per designer for 6 months for the residents of Tamil Nadu as certified by Revenue
   Department Authorities subject to a maximum of 50 employees.


 2.5 Duration of the Scheme
   The Special Scheme for Technical Textiles and Apparel shall be in operation for a period of 5 years
   from the date of notification.

 2.6 Scheme Implementation
   The administration of incentives under this scheme shall be as per the Policy Implementation
   indicated under TNIP 2021 (Section 20). SIPCOT is mandated to act as the implementing and
   disbursal agency for all the incentives listed in this Scheme.
2.7 Eligible Products in Technical Textiles, MMF Fabric & Apparel
   The eligibility of products shall be based on the following:

i. Technical Textiles & MMF Fabric     a. HSN codes/Product description provided in the ‘Operational
                                          Guidelines for Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme for
                                          Textiles for Promoting MMF and Technical Textiles segments’
                                          vide Notification dated 24.09.2021
                                       b. Bureau of Indian Standards/Other relevant National or
                                          International standards for Technical Textiles
                                       c. Certification from accredited Govt of India agency /
                                          Designated Centre of Excellence
                                       d. Any other products as may be notified by the Government
                                          from time to time.

ii. Apparel                            a. Products listed under HSN Code -
                                           • Chapter 61: Accessories of clothing knitted or crocheted
                                              and articles of apparel
                                           • Chapter 62: Articles of apparel and clothing accessories,
                                              not knitted or crocheted

                                       b. Any other products as may be notified by Government from
                                          time to time




   Eligibility of the projects for MMF yarn from recycled products and CFCs shall be determined on a
   case to case basis by the Interdepartmental Committee constituted under TNIP 2021.

2.8 Choice of Policy/Scheme
   The company shall make the choice to choose the package of incentives under the “Special Scheme
   for Technical Textiles, MMF yarn from recycled materials, MMF Fabric & Apparel Manufacturing”
   or any one prevailing policy (Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021 or the Policies issued by the
   Government of Tamil Nadu) but not both, for the same Project. This should be a one-time choice
   and should be exercised at the beginning itself by the investor.

2.9 Other Conditions
   The definitions, general conditions for sanction of incentives, general conditions for availing
   incentives, conditions for changes in the company or investment plan after sanction of incentives,
   eligibility criteria and procedure for applying for eligibility certificate, procedure for sanction of
   incentives and sanctioning authorities and procedure for claiming incentives and implementation
   agencies shall be as per TNIP 2021 or as notified by GoTN.
